1 
  
 
FINAL NOTICE 
 
 
To: Barclays Bank Plc  
 
Firm Reference 
Number: 122702 
 
Address: One Churchill Place 
 London 
 E14 5HP 
 
Date: 14 July 2025 
1. ACTION 
1.1 For the reasons given in this Final Notice, the Authority hereby imposes on Barclays 
Bank Plc (“Barclays”) a financial penalty of £39,314,700 pursuant to section 206 of 
the Act.  
1.2 Barclays agreed to resolve this matter and qualified for a 30% (stage 1) discount 
under the Authority’s executive settlement procedures. Were it not for this 
discount, the Authority would have imposed a financial penalty of £56,163,900 on 
Barclays. 
2. SUMMARY OF REASONS 
Overview  
2.1 Financial services firms are at risk of being abused by those seeking to launder the 
proceeds of crime. The integrity of the UK financial system is endangered by 
weaknesses which risk allowing the system to be used for a purpose connected 
with financial crime. The Authority has the operational objective of protecting and 
enhancing the integrity of the UK financial system. The laundering of money 
through UK financial institutions undermines the integrity of the UK financial 
system. It is the responsibility o f UK financial institutions to ensure that they 
minimise the risk of being used for criminal purposes , including the risks of being 
used to launder the proceeds of crime.  
2 
2.2 In particular, this involves a firm ensuring that it has established the identity and 
source of wealth of its customers as part of its Customer Due Diligence (“CDD”) 
and, in respect of business customers, the nature of the customer’s business and 
how it will use the firm’s services. By establishing this accurately at the start of the 
relationship, the firm can assess the money laundering risks presented by the 
customer. Thereafter, the firm must monitor the activities of the customer, 
including monitoring transactions, to ensure that they remain consistent with the 
firm’s understanding of its business and the associated money laundering risks. 
The extent and frequency of the monitoring in respect of each customer will depend 
on the particular risks presented by that customer. Where the risks of money 
laundering are higher, firms must conduct enhanced due diligence (“EDD”) 
measures consistent with the risks identified.  
2.3 Where a firm identifies that a customer’s activities are inconsistent with the firm’s 
understanding of its business, or that it may be engaged in suspicious activity, it 
must take prompt action to manage any money laundering risks this creates. This 
may include revisiting the risk rating for that customer, applying EDD and enhanced 
ongoing monitoring and/or terminating the relationship.  
2.4 Barclays is a member of the Barclays Group, a British banking and financial services 
group headquartered in London and operating across 38 countries. The Barclays 
Group has approximately 48 million customers worldwide of which a round 20 
million are in the UK.  
2.5 Between 9 January 2015 and 23 April 2021 (“the Relevant Period”), Barclays failed 
adequately to identify, assess, monitor and manag e the money laundering risks 
associated with the provision of banking services to Stunt & Co Ltd (“Stunt & Co”), 
one of its corporate banking customers. Although Barclays established and 
maintained anti-money laundering (“AML”) policies during the Relevant Period and 
was aware of the importance of CDD  and EDD, it failed to apply an appropriate 
level of CDD on Stunt & Co  or, at appropriate times consistent with the risks 
identified, apply EDD. Save for a period between March 2019 and May 2020 when 
Barclays assessed Stunt & Co as medium risk, Stunt & Co was assigned a low risk 
rating and Barclays failed to consider whether that risk rating remained 
appropriate. This was despite Barclays’ awareness of multiple risks regarding the 
business relationship with Stunt & Co from the establishment and during the course 
of that relationship, including in respect of the nature of Stunt & Co’s business and 
the source of wealth of its director and sole shareholder  James Stunt (who was a 
personal banking customer at Barclays).  
3 
2.6 In particular,  Stunt & Co  conducted a close business relationship with Fowler 
Oldfield Ltd (“Fowler Oldfield”), a UK jewellery business which was not a  Barclays 
customer. Stunt & Co received £46.8 million in electronic transfers into its Barclays 
account from Fowler Oldfield  between July 2015 and August 2016 . From 2016 
Fowler Oldfield was the subject of a criminal investigation involving suspicions of 
potential money laundering, of which Barclays was made aware in August 2016. In 
December 2021, National Westminster Bank Plc (“NatWe st”) was fined £264.8 
million following convictions for offences under the Money Laundering Regulations 
2007 (“the 2007 Regulations”) relating to its use by its customer Fowler Oldfield to 
facilitate money laundering (from which account Fowler Oldfield transferred funds 
to Stunt & Co). On 4 March 2025, Gregory Frankel and Daniel Rawson, who were 
both directors of Fowler Oldfield, were convicted of money laundering. 
2.7 The Authority considers that the £46.8 million received by Stunt & Co from Fowler 
Oldfield represented the proceeds of crime and that Stunt & Co’s account was used 
in part to launder the funds.  On 4  March 2025, James Stunt was acquitted of  
money laundering charges in relation to monies received by Stunt & Co from Fowler 
Oldfield, on the basis that he had no knowledge or suspicion that those monies 
were criminal property. 
2.8 Stunt & Co’s accounts at Barclays were frozen from 29 August 2018 and closed in 
April 2020 and October 2020. In March 2021, when the Authority charged NatWest 
with offences under the 2007 Regulations, Barclays commenced an investigation 
into its own exposure to monies its customers received from Fowler Oldfield.  
Barclays’ misconduct 
2.9 The Authority considers that Barclays breached Principle 2 during the Relevant 
Period by failing to conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence in respect 
of the identification, assessment, monitoring and management of the money 
laundering risks associated with the provision of banking services to Stunt & Co. In 
particular: 
(a) in establishing a business relationship with Stunt & Co in January 2015 and 
assigning it a low risk rating, Barclays failed to obtain sufficient information 
from it on the nature of its business , including on its source of wealth and 
source of funds, in order to assess the money laundering risks appropriately. 
Having assigned the ‘low’ risk rating, Barclays failed to update it in light of 
relevant information which should have led to a re-assessment of whether the 
risk rating was accurate and whether EDD was necessary; 
4 
(b) following onboarding, Barclays failed to conduct appropriate ongoing 
monitoring of Stunt & Co  and to scrutinise the transactions undertaken to 
ensure that they were consistent with Barclays’ knowledge of its business . 
This included significant funds received by Stunt & Co  from Fowler Oldfield 
from July 2015 that were inconsistent with Barclays’ understanding of Stunt 
& Co’s business and significantly in excess of the turnover Stunt & Co  had 
informed Barclays was likely at account opening . Barclays also failed to 
consider, following receipt of information on 8 October 2015 that Stunt & Co 
and Fowler Oldfield had entered into a joint venture , whether the change in 
Stunt & Co’s business model and turnover merited a reconsideration of its risk 
rating or a need to conduct EDD or enhanced ongoing monitoring; 
(c) when Barclays refreshed its CDD in respect of Stunt & Co in January 2016, it 
failed to obtain and verify sufficient information to enable it to have a sound 
understanding of the nature of Stunt & Co ’s business and the money 
laundering risks presented by it; 
(d) despite receiving significant information in August 2016 (via a request from 
law enforcement) that Fowler Oldfield may have been used to launder the 
proceeds of suspected money laundering and that Stunt & Co was one of the 
main recipients of electronic credits from Fowler Oldfield , Barclays failed to 
consider appropriately what effect this may have on the money laundering 
risks associated with Stunt & Co, including whether EDD or enhanced ongoing 
monitoring was required, or whether it should terminate the relationship; 
(e) despite identifying adverse media in September 2016 that the premises of 
both Stunt & Co  and Fowler Oldfield  had been raided by the police in 
connection with money laundering, and despite its Intelligence, Monitoring 
and Investigation (“IMI”) team separately conducting a review of Stunt & Co’s 
accounts in September 2016 to understand the relationship between it and 
Fowler Oldfield as a consequence of news of the police raids and Production 
Orders received in August 2016, Barclays considered that the account activity 
was consistent with its understanding of Stunt & Co’s business. This was also 
despite a further Production Order which had been received by Barclays in 
respect of Stunt & Co in November 2016. Although Barclays had received the 
request from law enforcement concerning Fowler Oldfield in August 2016, the 
IMI team were not made aware of the law enforcement request for its review. 
No change was made to Stunt & Co’s risk rating and no EDD was applied; 
5 
(f) in January 2017, Barclays completed a KYC refresh in respect of Stunt & Co 
and certified that all necessary due diligence had been conducted. This was 
despite Barclays not having received responses to outstanding queries 
regarding Stunt & Co , Fowler Oldfield and the source of Mr Stunt’s wealth, 
and despite being aware of a police investigation being conducted into Fowler 
Oldfield. No changes were made to Stunt & Co’s risk rating and no EDD nor 
enhanced ongoing monitoring was applied; 
(g) Barclays continued to assess Stunt & Co as low risk, save for a period between 
March 2019 and May 2020 when it was assessed as medium risk. As a result, 
no periodic annual review of Stunt & Co’s accounts was conducted by Barclays 
in 2018 or 2019. This was despite Barclays receiving a number of court orders 
relating to Mr Stunt and Stunt & Co in 2018 and 2019. Barclays, noting that 
Stunt & Co’s accounts were frozen from 29 August 2018,  failed to conduct 
further reviews of its relationship with Stunt & Co or its risk rating or consider 
whether any EDD or enhanced monitoring should be applied or whether the 
relationship should be terminated; and 
(h) the fact of Mr Stunt being charged with money laundering offences in May 
2020 did not prompt any consideration of whether Barclays should review the 
account activity of  Stunt & Co . It was only after Barclays learned in March 
2021 of the Authority’s decision to charge NatWest with criminal offences 
under the 2007 Regulations, in respect of NatWest’s relationship with Fowler 
Oldfield, that Barclays commenced a significant investigation in respect of 
Stunt & Co and certain other Barclays customers who had received funds from 
Fowler Oldfield. Mr Stunt was acquitted of the money laundering charges on 
4 March 2025. 
2.10 Stunt & Co  received a total of  £46.8 million  in electronic receipts  from Fowler 
Oldfield between July 2015 and August 2016. The Authority considers that those 
monies represented the proceeds of crime and that Stunt & Co’s account was used 
in part to launder the funds. 
Seriousness 
2.11 The Authority considers Barclays’ breach of Principle 2 to be serious because: 
(a) the Authority published, before and during the Relevant Period, guidance for 
firms on preventing financial crime in addition to a number of Notices against 
firms for AML weaknesses . This is  in addition to the extensive guidance 
6 
published by the Joint Money Laundering Steering Group (“JMLSG”) to assist 
banks in addressing these risks. These publications emphasise the importance 
of firms having robust controls in place to counter financial crime risks, 
particularly in respect of a customer’s source of funds and the nature of their 
business. Firms are required to apply these controls with due skill, care and 
diligence; and 
(b) In the Authority’s view, the £46.8 million received into the account of Stunt & 
Co from Fowler Oldfield during the Relevant Period represents the proceeds 
of crime. The risk of damaging confidence in the UK market, in that Barclays 
was facilitating the movement of funds linked to financial crime, is 
consequently significant. 
2.12 The Authority acknowledges that Barclays proactively reported its findings to the 
Authority in June 2021 following the Bank’s review  of its own exposure to Fowler 
Oldfield, in accordance with the Authority’s expectations for authorised firms. 
Barclays has also cooperated fully with the Authority throughout the course of its 
investigation.  
2.13 The Authority also acknowledges that Barclays continues to engage and invest in a 
significant remediation programme to enhance its AML control framework , which 
has resulted in structural changes. 
 
Sanction 
2.14 The Authority hereby imposes a financial penalty on Barclays of £39,314,700 for 
its breach of Principle 2 which reflects the settlement discount of 30%. Were it not 
for this discount, the Authority would have imposed a financial penalty of 
£56,163,900.  
3. DEFINITIONS 
3.1 The definitions below are used in this Notice. 
“the 2007 Regulations” means the Money Laundering Regulations 2007, which were 
in force in respect of conduct beginning after 15 December 2007 and before 26 
June 2017 inclusive; 
“the Act” means the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000;  
“AML” means anti-money laundering; 
7 
“the Assay Office” means an assay office in the UK granted the right to assay and 
hallmark precious metals; 
“the Authority” means the body corporate previously known as the Financial 
Services Authority and renamed on 1 April 2013 as the Financial Conduct Authority; 
“Bank A” means a bank which Stunt & Co informed Barclays had provided to it a 
master bullion loan facility for use in Stunt & Co ’s business during the Relevant 
Period; 
“Barclays” or “the Bank” means Barclays Bank Plc; 
“Barclays Group” means the global financial services group of companies of which 
Barclays Bank Plc is a member; 
“the Barclays AML Intelligence team” means the team in the Financial Intelligence 
Unit at Barclays responsible for dealing with enquiries from law enforcement  
relating to money laundering; 
“BIC” means Barclays Industrial Classification; 
“CDD” means customer due diligence, the measures a firm must take to establish 
and verify the identity of its customers and the purpose and intended nature of the 
business relationship; 
“DEPP” means the Decision Procedure and Penalties Manual, part of the Handbook; 
“EDD” means enhanced customer due diligence, the measures a firm must apply 
in certain circumstances, including where the customer presents a higher risk of 
money laundering; 
“Financial Crime Analyst A ” means an Analyst in Financial Crime Analytics  at 
Barclays; 
“FIU” means the Financial Intelligence Unit at Barclays; 
“Fowler Oldfield” means Fowler Oldfield Ltd; 
“the Handbook” means the Authority’s Handbook of rules and guidance; 
“HMRC” meant during the Relevant Period Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs; 
“HNW” means High Net Worth; 
8 
“the IMI Manager” means a Manager in the IMI team from late 2015 (who was 
formerly the WIM EDD Analyst); 
“the IMI team” means the Intelligence, Monitoring and Investigation team  at 
Barclays; 
“JMLSG” means the Joint Money Laundering Steering Group, a private sector body 
made up of the leading UK trade associations in the financial services industry; 
“JMLSG Guidance” means the guidance issued by the JMLSG  and approved by a 
Treasury Minister on compliance with the legal requirements in the 2007 
Regulations, regulatory requirements in the Authority’s Handbook and evolving 
practice within the financial services industry. The JMLSG Guidance sets out good 
practice for the UK financial services sector on the prevention of money laundering 
and combatting terrorist financing; 
“KYC” means know your customer; 
“KYC Manager A” means a KYC Manager in the London KYC & Account Opening 
team at Barclays; 
“KYC Manager B” means a KYC Manager in the KYC Remediation and Refresh team 
at Barclays; 
“MLRO” means Money Laundering Reporting Officer , an individual wit h 
responsibility for oversight of a firm’s AML systems and controls whose role is to 
act as the focal point for all AML activity within the firm;  
“Mr Stunt” means James Robert Frederick Stunt; 
“NatWest” means National Westminster Bank plc;  
“PACE” means the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984; 
“POCA” means the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002;  
“the Principles” means the Authority’s Principles for Businesses; 
“Production Order” in this Notice means an order made under section 345 of POCA 
which require s the production of material to an appropriate officer in a law 
enforcement investigation or to give an appropriate officer access to that material; 
9 
“the Relationship Director” means the Relationship Director at Barclays responsible 
for the relationship between the Bank and Stunt & Co; 
“the Relevant Period” means the period 9 January 2015 to 23 April 2021; 
“Stunt & Co” means Stunt & Co Ltd; 
“Supplier A” means a company based in Burkina Faso which was to supply gold to 
Stunt & Co for use in its business during the Relevant Period; 
“the Tribunal” means the Upper Tribunal (Tax and Chancery Chamber);  
“UBO” means Ultimate Beneficial Owner; 
“UHNW” means Ultra High Net Worth; 
“the WIM banker” means a private banker in the WIM team; 
“the WIM EDD Analyst” means an EDD analyst in the WIM team during 2015 (who 
from late 2015 was the IMI Manager); and 
“the WIM team” means the Wealth and Investment Management team at Barclays. 
4. FACTS AND MATTERS 
Barclays  
4.1 Barclays is a member of the Barclays Group, a British banking and financial services 
group headquartered in London and operating across 38 countries. It has 
approximately 48 million customers worldwide of which around 20 million are in 
the UK . Barclays has been authorised by the Authority to provide regulated 
products and services since 1 December 2001. 
Legal and regulatory obligations 
 
4.2 All authorised firms have legal and regulatory obligations to establish and maintain 
appropriate and risk-sensitive policies and procedures in order to minimise the risk 
of being used to further financial crime, including money laundering. These must 
include systems and controls that enable it to identify, assess, monitor and manage 
money laundering risk and which are comprehensive and proportionate to the 
nature, scale and complexity of the firm’s activities. These obligations are set out 
in the Authority’s Handbook and, during the Relevant Period, the 2007 Regulations 
10 
which were supported by the JMLSG Guidance together with statements from the 
Authority. 
4.3 The 2007 Regulations, as supported by the JMLSG Guidance,  required that firms 
undertake CDD by gathering documents, data or other information about their 
customers. This is in order to identify and verify the identity of the customer or (in 
the case of corporate entities, trusts and other arrangements) the customer’s 
ownership and control structure, and to establish the purpose and intended nature 
of the business relationship. Subject to certain exceptions,  the circumstances in 
which firms must apply CDD include when the business relationship is established, 
when money laundering is suspected , and when the firm doubts the veracity or 
adequacy of documents, data or information previously obtained for the purposes 
of identification or verification.  
4.4 Firms were also required to apply CDD measures at appropriate times to its existing 
customers on a risk -sensitive basis  under the 2007 Regulations . The JMLSG 
Guidance stated that a  range of trigger events, such as an existing customer 
applying to open a new account or establish a new relationship, might prompt a 
firm to seek appropriate evidence. 
4.5 Firms were also required under the 2007 Regulations to conduct ongoing 
monitoring of the business relationship with customers  on a risk -sensitive basis. 
This involves scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the 
relationship (including, where necessary, the source of funds) to ensure that the 
transactions are consistent with the relevant person’s knowledge of the customer, 
the customer’s business and risk profile. This also involves keeping the documents, 
data or information obtained for the purpose of applying CDD measures up-to-date.  
4.6 The 2007 Regulations, as supported by the JMLSG Guidance, further required that 
in a situation which by its nature can present a higher risk  of money laundering, 
firms must conduct EDD and enhanced ongoing monitoring measures on a risk -
sensitive basis. The JMLSG Guidance provided examples of EDD measures that  
could be applied for higher risk business relationships, including:  
(a) obtaining, and where appropriate verifying, additional information on the 
customer and updating more regularly the identification of the customer and 
any beneficial owner;  
(b) obtaining additional information on the intended nature of the business 
relationship;  
11 
(c) obtaining information on the source of funds or source of wealth of the 
customer;  
(d) obtaining information on the reasons for intended or performed transactions; 
and  
(e) conducting enhanced monitoring of the business relationship, by increasing 
the number and timing of controls applied, and selecting patterns of 
transactions that need further examination.  
4.7 The JMLSG Guidance stated that where appropriate and practical, and where there 
are no data protection restrictions , firms should take reasonable steps to ensure 
that where they have CDD information in one part of the business, they are able to 
link it to information in another. 
4.8 Relevant extracts from the Authority’s Handbook, the 2007 Regulations and the 
JMLSG Guidance are set out in Annex A to this Notice. 
Fowler Oldfield 
 
4.9 Fowler Oldfield  was a UK jewellery business which was not authorised by the 
Authority. Fowler Oldfield was not a customer of Barclays. It entered liquidation on 
14 October 2016.  
4.10 From 2016 Fowler Oldfield was the subject of a criminal investigation involving 
suspicions of potential money laundering. In December 2021, NatWest was fined 
£264.8 million following convictions for offences under the 2007 Regulations 
relating to its use by its customer Fowler Oldfield to facilitate money laundering. 
On 4 March 2025, Gregory Frankel and Daniel Rawson, who were both directors of 
Fowler Oldfield, were convicted of money laundering.  
Account opening for James Stunt 
 
4.11 James Stunt opened a personal account at Barclays in September 2005. Mr Stunt 
was rated as standard risk at account opening. Mr Stunt remained a standard risk 
customer until 23 March 2021, with his account subject to a restraint order from 
August 2018 (see paragraph 4.132 below). As a result of Barclays’ ring-fencing, Mr 
Stunt became a customer of another entity within the Barclays Group on 1 April 
2018.  
12 
Account opening for Stunt & Co 
4.12 On or around 9 January 2015, Stunt & Co applied to open an account at Barclays. 
The account was opened on 16 January 2015. Mr Stunt was a director and the sole 
shareholder of Stunt & Co.  
Barclays’ CDD and EDD policies 
4.13 When Stunt & Co’s account was opened, Barclays’ 2013 AML policy (“the 2013 AML 
policy”) applied. This set out minimum standards that applied to Barclays’ lines of 
business. Initially, the CDD procedure at customer take-on included: 
(a) identification;  
(b) verification; 
(c) understanding the purpose and nature of the relationship (including source of 
wealth and source of funds); and 
(d) understanding the control and ultimate ownership of clients/customers (for 
private companies, due diligence on controllers and UBOs was required).  
4.14 Barclays’ due diligence and onboarding procedures for client relationships within 
Corporate Banking  dated 15 December 2014  (“the 2014 Due Diligence and 
Onboarding Procedures”) stated that CDD was about understanding who the Bank’s 
clients were and the risks they might pose to its business, and that the purpose of 
effective CDD was, amongst other things, “to ensure a banking relationship is not 
established or maintained that may be used as a vehicle for money laundering […].” 
It stated that effective CDD required that there was “a sound understanding of the 
client’s business before entering into a relationship with them”. It listed examples 
of effective CDD  as capturing and analysing information about the client to 
understand: 
 
“what business activities they are involved in  who they trade with 
(customers, suppliers, partners) who controls and owns the business  
[…] 
which countries or jurisdictions the clients or any related party operate in 
source/origin of funds 
the client’s risk profile - so that appropriate consideration can be given to 
the possible actions that can be taken to mitigate the risks that have been 
found.” 
13 
 
 The procedures also stated that the information  gathered at new client take on 
played a key role in the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship.  
 
4.15 The procedures also referred to certain client relationships requiring EDD before 
the relationship was established, stating that t he purpose of EDD was to provide 
the firm with an understanding of the risks associated with an entity or individuals, 
and to allow the firm to make risk-sensitive commercial decisions. The procedures 
stated that an EDD review may result in requests for additional information 
regarding, amongst other things, the nature and details of the business, and the 
source and origin of funds. 
4.16 Barclays’ Corporate Bank use d the Risk Scoring Tool ( “RST”) as a risk rating 
system. The methodology for the RST remained the same from 1 December 2014 
to 31 December 2020  and considered four different components related to each 
customer, namely: product, geography, industry and entity. Each component was 
scored. Each component ha d a number of risk criteria which were analysed and 
used to give the overall component score. The system provide d a total monthly 
score for the customer and assign ed a risk rating accordingly. A client was 
categorised as low, standard or high risk  based on the following factors: client/ 
customer risk (including industry  and reputational risk); product risk ( including 
susceptibility to money laundering) ; and delivery channels (including third party 
introducers and distributors).  
4.17 A customer’s risk rating was used to determine the level of due diligence that was 
to be undertaken. The 2013 AML policy provided that low risk customers may be 
subject to simplified due diligence and high risk customers were subject to  EDD 
and enhanced ongoing monitoring. In 2016, an additional level was introduced, so 
that low risk customers were subject to simplified due diligence, standard risk 
customers were subject to  standard due diligence and high -risk customers were 
subject to EDD. 
4.18 Business units were required to  perform EDD during take -on for higher risk  
customers. This included where a client was engaged in any business activity 
connected to any restricted countries.  The policy also stated that EDD must be 
considered for other high risk situations. The 2013 AML policy stated that EDD may 
lead to a conclusion that a particular client/customer did not ultimately pose a high 
risk to the business, meaning that EDD may not lead directly to the high risk 
14 
categorisation of a client/customer; if that was the case , business-specific 
procedures were required to define clearly the related categorisation process. 
Onboarding of Stunt & Co 
4.19 The Barclays KYC team and the Relationship Director for Stunt & Co took steps to 
gather KYC information on Stunt & Co by obtaining material directly from Stunt & 
Co and in meetings with Stunt & Co.   
4.20 The account opening application, dated 9 January 2015, noted: 
(a) Stunt & Co’s nature of business was described as “Gold Refining & Trading”;  
(b) the business was to be funded by an initial investment of £1,500,000 paid 
into the account from various accounts of Mr Stunt;  
(c) the company’s anticipated turnover was expected to be £500,000, although 
this was manually amended to £3 million; and 
(d) the company would not trade outside of the EU. 
4.21 When the account was opened, Barclays allocated the Stunt & Co  account the 
Barclays Industrial Classification “5240 Jewellery”, which “Includes the following 
activities: Clocks (retail) Jewellery (retail) Watches and clocks (retail) ”. This was 
not an accurate reflection of the anticipated nature of Stunt & Co’s business, which 
was stated to be “Gold Refining & Trading”. 
4.22 The 2014 Due Diligence and Onboarding Procedures state d that “BIC/BTA code 
details” were mandatory fields to complete to facilitate the transfer of data to 
Shared Data Services, which was Barclays’  main client reference database . This 
linked customer records to a unique single customer identifier and allowed KYC 
teams to view client data held by all parts of the Bank. Corporate KYC was required 
to verify any BIC provided by the Origination team and submit a screenshot to the 
Account Opening team to be recorded on Barclays’ systems.  
4.23 Moreover, guidance relating to Barclays’ Alacra system (see paragraph  4.36) 
indicated that if a h igh risk industry was i dentified at account opening, then 
“Commercial Director/Deputy Notification 1st level sign off” was required via email. 
If a n ew risk was identified, the Relationship Director was required to decide 
whether to accept the risk.  
15 
4.24 The relationship team met with representatives of Stunt & Co on 27 January 2015 
to discuss the account opening application , the nature of its business  and its 
banking requirements. Barclays was informed on that occasion that Stunt & Co’s 
business plan was for gold to be sourced from West Africa. Stunt & Co planned to 
use secondary sources for gold , principally in Ghana and Burkina Faso . The 
relationship team recorded in its note of the meeting, “It is not clear why they will 
not be using main  stream [sic] suppliers.” Having sourced the gold, Stunt & Co  
intended to p rocess it and sell it  to HNW individuals in the Middle East.  The 
customers were expected to be primarily “James’s Middle East contacts (Jordan, 
Kuwait, Doha & UAE […])”. The relationship team further noted, “We have stressed 
that if they are seeking to market to the general public then we will need to 
undertake further DD”. 
4.25 During that meeting, Stunt & Co also informed Barclays that it had acquired the 
lease of a foundry situated at the Assay Office, and would move in in April 2015.  
4.26 On 28 January 2015, Barclays opened a Euro currency account for Stunt & Co. The 
stated nature of business was “Gold Refining and Trading” and the stated reason 
for opening the account was “Operations in Europe”. This indicated a change in the 
geographic region of the business. The Authority considers that this should have 
triggered a review of the risk rating of Stunt & Co.  
4.27 On 3 February 2015, the Relationship Director received documents from  a 
representative of Stunt & Co relating to Stunt & Co. These included a draft sale and 
purchase agreement for the purchase of 24kg of gold by Stunt & Co from Supplier 
A (a company based in Burkina Faso), to be delivered to the UK and shipped to the 
Assay Office.  
4.28 On 9 February 2015, the Relationship Director asked Stunt & Co’s representative 
for further information about Stunt & Co’s business plan, including information on 
the industry risk regarding the West African gold mining industry and on their KYC 
and AML procedures in respect of suppliers . The representative of Stunt & Co  
responded that Stunt & Co would be selling to UHNW and HNW individuals, family 
offices, wholesalers (with a UK -based wholesaler given as an example) , private 
banks and institutions, and  stated that procedures for AML and KYC for all their 
customers would be  “followed closely”. The representative of Stunt & Co  stated 
that they had  provided to Barclays all of the KYC i nformation regarding Stunt & 
Co’s suppliers and were also using the services of  “Focus-Africa” which was 
undertaking their due diligence procedures in Africa.  
16 
4.29 On 12 February 2015, the representative of Stunt & Co sent Barclays Stunt & Co’s 
business plan, which was dated 12 February 2015 and set out details of the refinery 
located within the Assay Office. The revenue forecast for 2015  was stated as 
approximately £11.1 million, which did not accord with the anticipated turnover of 
£3 million recorded in the account opening document dated 15 January 2015, less 
than one month earlier. The representative of Stunt & Co stated that, whilst they 
were working with Supplier A as their initial supplier , they  “will be looking to 
diversify [their] bona fide sources”. 
4.30 On 16 February 2015, a US Dollar currency account was opened for Stunt & Co at 
Barclays. The nature of the business was stated as “Precious metal refinery”. When 
asked to disclose the countries with which Stunt & Co  would be trading, the 
response was: “TBC. Customers not yet identified. Early pre production phase of 
business”.   
4.31 On 26 February 2015, the relationship team met with Stunt & Co again. Stunt & Co 
reiterated their desire to progress their first importation from Africa and “to show 
intent to their African supplier”. 
Barclays’ response to risks at o nboarding relating to the nature of Stunt & Co ’s 
business 
4.32 At account opening, Stunt & Co  was treated as a Corporate Banking customer. 
Given the level of expected turnover of £3 million per annum, Stunt & Co did not 
fall within the parameters of Corporate Banking.  However, given Mr Stunt’s close 
association with another Barclays corporate customer, Barclays allocated to Stunt 
& Co the same Corporate Banking Relationship Director as other entities in the 
associated group of companies.  
4.33 The account opening form for Stunt & Co stated that it would not trade outside of 
the EU. However, the business plan discussed with the Relationship Director, and 
concerning which they made written enquiries with the firm, stated that gold would 
be sourced in West Africa and sold to HNW individuals in the Middle East. The Bank 
failed to address those inconsistencies in the KYC undertaken at account opening. 
Moreover, the business plan s tated that Stunt & Co  was to trade in gold, a high 
value product with suppliers in certain countries in West Africa , which were 
assessed by Barclays as presenting a high risk for the purposes of assessing money 
laundering risk, to be sold to HNW individuals in the Middle East, a high risk region. 
This proposed trading with suppliers and customers in high risk jurisdictions ought 
to have been a trigger for the application of EDD according to the 2013 AML policy 
17 
(see paragraph 4.18). Further, Barclays had allocated Stunt & Co  the industry 
classification of “5240 Jewellery” (see paragraph 4.21). Notwithstanding that the 
classification should have been Gold Refining and Commercial, the 2013 AML policy 
classified jewellers as presenting a “ higher risk” and required business units to 
consider conducting EDD for such customers.  
4.34 On 15 January 2015, KYC Manager A  asked the Relationship Director to confirm 
whether they should complete standard due diligence or EDD on Stunt & Co (due 
to the nature of its business). The Relationship Director stated that they were  
comfortable to undertake standard due diligence at that stage and that they were 
was going to speak to Mr Stunt to discuss the business in more detail in order to 
decide whether or not to undertake further due diligence. Barclays failed to record 
its rationale for deciding that EDD was not necessary for Stunt & Co. 
4.35 Notwithstanding the financial crime risk factors around the nature of Stunt & Co’s 
business which were apparent at account opening, Barclays classified Stunt & Co 
as low risk and did not record its rationale for this. The Authority considers that the 
Bank should have given closer attention to the information provided by Stunt & Co 
and that the inconsistencies in that information ought to have been identified and 
responded to effectively. 
Barclays’ policies and procedures regarding adverse media 
4.36 The 2014 Due Diligence and Onboarding Procedures  required that an adverse 
media search be performed as part of the onboarding process and that any adverse 
media identified required further investigation.  The Onshore KYC Manager was 
required to complete an Alacra screening at onboarding . Alacra was a client 
research and data aggregation tool used to highlight any relevant or detrimental 
information within all necessary regulatory watch lists, premium databases, news 
and web resources for potential clients and its officials . The relevant Alacra 
guidance stated that public domain searches should be completed on individuals 
and entities to highlight any involvement in adverse activities, which was crucial to 
protect the bank from reputational and financial risks. The guidance also stated 
that Google searches (including of adverse terms within Alacra) acted as a control 
for highlighting these risks. 
Barclay’s adverse media checks on Stunt & Co 
4.37 Stunt & Co’s account opening document records adverse media checks conducted 
on 15 January 2015. The Authority has seen no evidence that the adverse media 
18 
results were reviewed and if so, why they were discounted.  This lack of further 
investigation into the adverse media results or consideration by the Relationship 
Director of whether to accept the risk was contrary to Barclays’ policies regarding 
adverse media (as set out at paragraph 4.36). 
KYC sign-off of Stunt & Co at onboarding 
4.38 The 2014 Due Diligence and Onboarding Procedures stated that an attestation by 
the Relationship Director had to be completed detailing all relevant red flags, and 
that all investigations, escalations and EDD must be completed and resolved before 
the case was submitted to the Offshore team for account opening. 
4.39 The Stunt & Co  account opening document  included the attestation form which 
required the Relationship Director to indicate the a utomatic compliance referrals 
and red flags  which applied to the client , which included “Trade with High -Risk 
Jurisdictions/Countries”.  
4.40 Had Barclays conducted effective CDD to enable it to have a sound understanding 
of the nature of Stunt & Co’s business prior to the account opening according to its 
own policies (see paragraph 4.14), it would have ascertained  that Stunt & Co ’s 
stated business model involved trading gold with suppliers and customers in high-
risk jurisdictions (West Africa and the Middle East) , and that the red flag “ Trade 
with High -Risk Jurisdictions/Countries ” on the attestation form was therefore 
applicable. Instead, Barclays obtained this information  after the account opening, 
on 27 January 2015 (see paragraph 4.24).  
4.41 The form noted that if the Relationship Director identified that one or more of those 
compliance referrals or red flags applied to the client, they must provide supporting 
material to evidence that mandatory EDD had been applied. Although the 
information a vailable to Barclays at onboarding indicated that certain of the 
compliance referrals and red flags applied to Stunt & Co, no EDD was undertaken 
and there was no rationale recorded to explain the absence of EDD. 
4.42 On 15 January 2015, KYC Manager A and the Relationship Director each signed the 
attestation. The attestation signed by the Relationship Director confirmed the 
following: 
“As the Relationship Director with ultimate responsibility for the due 
diligence completed for the client, I confirm that there are no Automatic 
Compliance Referrals (ACRs) or Red Flags associated with this client. 
[…]  
19 
Consequently, I am satisfied that the overall due diligence conducted for 
this client adequately reflects the risk of on-boarding and/or maintaining the 
client relationship.”  
4.43 The attestation form included a section where the Relationship Director was 
required to provide detailed comment as to why they were supportive of the client 
onboarding or relationship retention notwithstanding the automatic compliance 
referrals/red flags that had been triggered for the client , and to indicate the 
automatic compliance referrals /red flags to which their comments referred.  The 
Relationship Director did not record any comments in respect of Stunt & Co, despite 
the automatic compliance referrals / red flags that applied based on the information 
available to Barclays at that time and despite lacking a sound understanding of 
Stunt & Co's business.  
4.44 Had Stunt & Co been given a high risk rating at onboarding, the relationship would 
have been subject to annual KYC reviews under Barclays’ policies. 
4.45 Barclays’ failure to conduct EDD on Stunt & Co at onboarding, notwithstanding the 
high risk nature of its business  and the high risk jurisdictions of the proposed 
suppliers and customers, was contrary to  the JMLSG Guidance, which stated that 
where the risks of money laundering are higher, firms must conduct EDD measures 
consistent with the risks identified (see Annex A).  
Review of Mr Stunt as a potential Wealth customer in 2015 
4.46 On 25 April 2015, the WIM banker emailed the Relationship Director stating they 
had been introduced to Mr Stunt who wished to open a Wealth account (this was 
further to the personal bank account Mr Stunt already held with Barclays). The WIM 
banker stated they needed to “make a full and detailed KYC and analysis of his 
SOW [Source of Wealth]” and asked the Relationship Director if they could assist. 
On the same day the WIM banker emailed the WIM team to ask them to assist with 
an EDD report, focussing on potential concerns around Mr Stunt’s source of wealth. 
On 29 April 2015, the WIM EDD Analyst tasked with the open source EDD report 
emailed the WIM banker noting potential concerns . They agreed to put the EDD 
report on hold until Mr Stunt provided information around his source of wealth. The 
WIM MLRO was copied into that email. 
4.47 On 1 May 2015, the WIM EDD Analyst confirmed to the WIM banker  that they 
understood that they would not be proceeding with this relationship, following the 
20 
WIM banker’s contact with Mr Stunt’s office. The WIM banker confirmed that this 
was correct and that they had updated the Relationship Director in Corporate. 
4.48 On 22 May 2015, the WIM team finalised its report using open source material only. 
Barclays was not able to obtain adequate evidence of Mr Stunt’s source of wealth. 
The report noted four potential sources of wealth for Mr Stunt: his relationship with 
wealthy individuals; his corporate interests; trading in high value goods; and family 
money. The report suggested that Mr Stunt’s wealth derived from an association 
with a publicly listed company but there was little evidence of Mr Stunt receiving 
money from th e firm or any connected initial public offering. The report also 
identified media reports relating to Mr Stunt seeking injunctions against journalists 
enquiring into his source of wealth. 
4.49 The report concluded that Mr Stunt’s source of wealth was unclear from open source 
research and that it had not been possible to establish verifiable evidence of “any 
independent and self -generated source of wealth”; it stated that the only 
“immediately apparent and credible source of his wealth” derived from his 
association with wealthy individuals. The Wealth relationship was not pursued with 
Mr Stunt.  
4.50 The WIM team’s concerns in respect of Mr Stunt’s source of wealth were not relayed 
to the Relationship Director at the time or other Barclays staff responsible for 
assessing the money laundering risks associated with Stunt & Co. As a result, those 
concerns did not inform any consideration of whether the risk rating for the Stunt 
& Co account remained appropriate or whether EDD or enhanced monitoring should 
be applied . This was contrary to the JMLSG Guidance which state d that where 
appropriate and practical, firms should take reasonable steps to ensure that where 
they have CDD information in one part of the business, they are able to link it to 
information in another (see paragraph 4.7).  
4.51 Further, Barclays did not seek to obtain more information on Mr Stunt’s source of 
wealth at that time despite the WIM team concluding that this was unclear  from 
open sources . This was despite the JMLSG Guidance stating that an  existing 
customer applying to open a new account  might be a trigger event for a firm to 
seek appropriate evidence on its customers for the purposes of applying CDD (see 
paragraph 4.4). 
21 
Relationship between Stunt & Co and Fowler Oldfield 
4.52 On 10 June 2015, a Stunt & Co representative emailed the relationship team to 
explain that they were expecting to make a payment to Fowler Oldfield and stated 
that Fowler Oldfield was “an established UK refinery [….] who have been introduced 
to us by the […] Assay Office.”  
4.53 The Barclays account of Stunt & Co  received 561 electronic payments totalling 
£46.8 million from Fowler Oldfield between July 2015 and August 2016. The first 
remittance from Fowler Oldfield was £100,000 on 22 July 2015. Between 22 July 
2015 and 8 October 2015, there were 105 payments totalling £8,934,591.55 
remitted by Fowler Oldfield to Stunt & Co . Those payments were, at the time, 
outside of the expected business activity of Stunt & Co  as set out in the KYC 
information held by Barclays (see paragraphs 4.20 and 4.29) in terms of both the 
value of the payments into the account and the source of those payments.  
4.54 On 8 October 2015, the relationship team held a third meeting with Stunt & Co’s 
management. Stunt & Co informed Barclays at this meeting that the UK refinery 
was now operating but it had found that buying direct ly from African suppliers 
hadn’t been successful. Stunt & Co further informed Barclays that it had established 
a joint venture with Fowler Oldfield, which was 70% controlled by Stunt & Co with 
the remaining 30% controlled by Fowler Oldfield, and that they intended to merge 
their refinery operations. The joint venture entity was not a Barclays customer. 
4.55 Barclays was also informed at the meeting that through connections of Mr Stunt, 
Stunt & Co  had arranged a $10 million master bullion facility with Bank A. The 
facility was described as enabling Stunt & Co  to sell/buy gold or finance the 
acquisition of scrap gold.  Stunt & Co stated that with that facility in place, it had 
achieved revenue of £5 million in September and expected to increase that to £10 
million in December.  
4.56 Until 8 October 2015, Barclays’ knowledge of the business plan of Stunt & Co was 
that it would buy gold from entities in West Africa and sell it to HNW individuals in 
the Middle East. The account activity and the value of the transactions in the 22 
July 2015 to 8 October 2015 period did not reflect the expected account activity of 
Stunt & Co. Barclays had, until 8 October 2015, no information as to the intended 
conduct of the joint venture  with Fowler Oldfield. This notwithstanding, Barclays 
took no immediate steps to verify the information provided  relating to the new 
relationship between its customer and Fowler Oldfield to enquire further into the 
22 
business arrangement with Fowler Oldfield, nor to consider whether the change in 
business model and turnover merited a reconsideration of Stunt & Co’s risk rating 
or a need to conduct EDD. Further, the payments made by Fowler Oldfield did not 
trigger any transaction monitoring alerts.   
Adverse media in November 2015 
4.57 On 30 November 2015 the WIM banker forwarded to the WIM team a recent media 
article which questioned the source and size of Mr Stunt’s wealth.  
4.58 In response to this adverse media, the WIM EDD Analyst referenced the WIM 
team’s review in May 2015 of Mr Stunt, noting that they had considered his source 
of wealth to have been “opaque” and “deeply unclear”. Whilst it had not identified 
any criminality relating to Mr Stunt’s source of wealth, the WIM team contacted the 
Barclays Financial Crime team and described Mr Stunt as “potentially a person of 
interest to corporate fin crime ” and re-attached its “coverage of Stunt” with “the 
details of the Stunt & Co. Relationship re: gold from West Africa”.  
Further transfers from Fowler Oldfield to Stunt & Co 
4.59 On 31 December 2015, Fowler Oldfield sent a round sum payment of £1 million to 
Stunt & Co’s account. This payment was ten times the previous largest payment 
into the account from Fowler Oldfield. Notwithstanding the unusualness of the value 
of that transaction, no monitoring alert was triggered and the account was not 
subject to review. 
4.60 By the end of January 2016, Stunt & Co  had received £20 million from Fowler 
Oldfield in 200 round sum payments of £100,000. 
KYC refresh of Stunt & Co in 2016 
4.61 In January 2016 due to adverse media the Financial Crime Advisory team requested 
that the KYC team perform an out-of-cycle KYC review of Stunt & Co.  The Financial 
Crime Advisory team also specifically required that Mr Stunt confirm the source of 
his wealth, how it was acquired and the source of funds into the business.  
4.62 In May 2016 Mr Stunt was subject to a Sta ndard Risk Refresh which w as an 
electronic identification and verification review using credit rating agency 
information. The standard risk rating for Mr Stunt was maintained. 
23 
The KYC refresh – policy requirements and actions taken 
4.63 Barclays’ procedures for a KYC refresh dated November 2015 set out a range of 
trigger events which could prompt either a full or partial KYC refresh, including 
“Significant spike or sustianed [sic] increase in turnover / change to source of funds 
/ significant adverse media”, stating that a combination of changes and triggers 
may indicate a wider issue or influence a change to the client’s risk profile . The 
procedures also set out the requirement to escalate adverse media relating to 
financial crime to the Corporate Banking Financial Crime team.  
4.64 In the case of Mr Stunt and his associated entities, KYC Manager B and the Financial 
Crime Advisory team were responsible for arranging the KYC refresh. At the start 
of the KYC refresh on 7 January 2016, the Financial Crime Advisory team  liaised 
with the Relationship Director’s team and advised them that the focus should be 
on Mr Stunt’s source of wealth and the source of funds into their businesses. When 
the refresh started on 7 January 2016, Stunt & Co had a risk rating of “Low” and 
Mr Stunt had a standard risk rating.   
KYC information gathering 
4.65 The KYC refresh team asked the Relationship Director’s team to obtain information 
from Stunt & Co including: 
(a) whether Mr Stunt was the sole key official, the only individual on the executive 
board and whether any other individual had control over the running of the 
business; 
(b) the company’s business activity and nature of its business; and 
(c) the source of funds for the company, including the expected annual turnover 
though the account, and whether the origin, destination and value of funds 
passing through the account were consistent with what was anticipated and 
the client’s nature and purpose of business. 
The Relationship Director was also asked to comment on the risk that proceeds of 
crime might be transacted through the Stunt & Co account.  
4.66 To conduct these KYC checks, the Relationship Director contacted Stunt & Co and 
also Mr Stunt’s accountant, as set out below. 
4.67 Around early February 2016, the Relationship Director had a call with a 
representative of Stunt & Co  regarding the provision of Stunt & Co ’s accounting 
24 
information, in which they were informed that the initial set of audited accounts for 
Stunt & Co  were being prepared for the period ending 31 March 2016. Barclays 
appears to have received the audited accounts for Stunt & Co on 7 February 2017 
(see paragraph 4.120). 
4.68 On 11 February 2016, the Relationship Director asked Stunt & Co to provide details 
of the CDD that it had undertaken on Fowler Oldfield prior to the establishment of 
commercial arrangements with it. That information was important to obtain to 
understand the relationship between Stunt & Co  and Fowler Oldfield with which 
Stunt & Co  had had entered into a profit sharing arrangement , given the risks 
around that relationship . Barclays’ procedures stated that CDD was about 
understanding the risks clients may pose to their business and listed examples of 
“effective CDD ” as capturing and analysing information about the client to 
understand “who they trade with (customers, suppliers, partners)” (see paragraph 
4.14). The Relationship Director specifically asked Stunt & Co to provide: copies of 
the latest audited accounts of the Fowler Oldfield group entity; details of Fowler 
Oldfield’s KYC and AML practices on customers that Fowler Oldfield acquired gold 
from and to whom Fowler Oldfield sold gold that had been refined at Stunt & Co’s 
refinery; and documentary evidence to show that the HMRC inspections, which 
Stunt & Co had informed Barclays that Fowler Oldfield were subject to regularly, 
were satisfactory from the perspective of HMRC.  
4.69 On 26 February 2016 Stunt & Co  provided to the Relationship Director what it 
described as “relevant KYC information”. That consisted of a copy of a certificate of 
incorporation on a change of name for Fowler Oldfield , a copy of the VAT 
registration form which list ed the trade classification of Fowler Oldfield as “Retail 
Predom. Food, drink or tobacco” and copies of the driving licences for two directors 
of Fowler Oldfield. Stunt & Co also provided an unaudited set of accounts for Fowler 
Oldfield for the year ending 31 December 2014.  
4.70 Barclays failed to identify and e nquire about  the discrepancy in the trade 
classification for Fowler Oldfield in the VAT registration form, nor did it follow up on 
that point with Stunt & Co. Further, the requested documentary evidence of HMRC 
inspections was not provided, nor the  requested copies of the AML processes of 
Fowler Oldfield . No further information demonstrat ing the legitimacy of Fowler 
Oldfield’s business was obtained. The documents provided by Stunt & Co therefore 
did not address the KYC requirements of Barclays required from Stunt & Co and 
the information was never provided.  
25 
4.71 The Relationship Director also requested a copy of the master bullion agreement 
between Stunt & Co and Bank A; Stunt & Co attached a copy of that agreement to 
its response. The copy provided was unsigned and undated; no steps were taken 
by Barclays to verify its legitimacy.  
4.72 The Relationship Director  identified at that time that Fowler Oldfield  remitted 
between £300,000 to £900,000 per day to Stunt & Co, giving an annual turnover 
estimated to be £150 million - £200 million.  
The Relationship Director’s view on financial crime risk 
4.73 As part of the KYC review, the KYC team also asked the Relationship Director how 
high the risk was that the proceeds of crime could be included in the traffic they 
saw. The Relationship Director responded on 8 February 2016: 
“Given the nature of the company’s activity, the risk must be considered 
medium but this is mitigated by the fact that the majority of the company’s 
stock is sourced via [Bank A] and the CDD undertaken on Fowler Oldfield 
(further details are being sought). Fowler Oldfield are responsible for the 
AML processes relating to the ultimate vendor of scrap gold and we 
understand that they are subject to regular and satisfactory HMRC 
reviews.”’ 
4.74 The Relationship Director had not however obtained, or where appropriate, verified, 
evidence supporting the factors which he considered mitigated the financial crime 
risk presented by Stunt & Co.  
Mr Stunt – Attempted verification of source of wealth  
4.75 On 8 January 2016 the Relationship Director was informed by the KYC team that 
Barclays’ Financial Crime Advisory team required evidence of Mr Stunt’s source of 
wealth. To assist the Relationship team, Barclays’ financial crime team pro vided 
the “Permissible Source of Wealth” guidance accepted by Barclays. This document 
provided guidance on the categories  of documents that might be requested to 
assess a customer’s source of wealth. These included: a copy of a contract of sale 
of assets in the client’s name; proof of employment; copies of wills and trust deeds 
and/or a grant of probate letter; evidence of legal settlements (for example, a 
divorce); copies of latest company reports; tax returns; and investment valuations, 
portfolio of holdings and evidence of how this had been accumulated. 
26 
4.76 On 11 February 2016 , the Relationship Director requested that Mr Stunt’s 
accountant provide to Barclays evidence of Mr Stunt’s source of wealth for internal 
KYC purposes and requested a statement of assets.  
4.77 On 19 February 2016, Mr Stunt’s accountant, whilst providing some information to 
the Relationship Director relating to the business of Stunt & Co, noted that he would 
provide the requested source of wealth information, subject to Mr Stunt’s 
instructions and agreement.  
4.78 Barclays did not receive the source of wealth information and chased the 
accountant for a response. On 31 August 2016 (almost six months later) the 
accountant wrote to the Relationship Director stating that Mr Stunt was “ very 
reticent to provide personal information regarding his finances, particularly when 
there is almost constant press speculation regarding that matter .” The Authority 
considers that such hesitancy in providing CDD information could be a red flag from 
an AML perspective. The accountant’s response attached a letter addressed to the 
Relationship Director dated 18 April 2016 (which Barclays had not previously 
received). In that letter the accountant provided brief and mostly generalised 
information about Mr Stunt’s source of wealth , with no supporting evidence . 
Although th e accountant’s  response did not accord with Barclays ’ “Permissible 
Source of Wealth ” guidance , no further enquiries, or attempts to obtain such 
documentation, were made.  
Risk rating following KYC refresh 
4.79 Barclays’ Financial Crime team triggered the requirement for verification of Mr 
Stunt’s source of wealth. Despite the failure to obtain verified source of wealth 
information that complied with Barclays’ policy requirements, Barclays retained its 
customer relationship with Mr Stunt and Stunt & Co. Further, Barclays did not revise 
the risk rating for either customer, with Mr Stunt continuing to be assessed as 
standard risk and Stunt & Co  as low risk. In particular, Barclays was unable to 
provide a satisfactory explanation to the Authority as to why it was satisfied with 
the unverified information received from Mr Stunt’s accountant in relation to his 
source of wealth. 
4.80 Following that KYC refresh conducted in 2016, Mr Stunt continued to be rated as 
standard risk (until 23 March 2021, and his accounts were subject to a restraint 
order from August 2018 – see paragraph 4.132) and Stunt & Co remained low risk. 
This was notwithstanding the lack of verifiable evidence obtained during the KYC 
refresh on Mr Stunt’s source of wealth and the failure to follow up on the inadequate 
27 
CDD information provided by Stunt & Co  on Fowler Oldfield . Barclays’ own 
procedures for a KYC refresh included significant adverse media amongst triggers 
which might prompt consideration of whether the risk profile of the client  should 
change (see paragraph 4.63). Barclays has no record of having assessed the risk 
profile of Mr Stunt following adverse media reports relating to him. 
 
Court orders relating to Stunt & Co in 2016 
Barclays’ policies for responding to court orders 
 
4.81 Barclays’ Court Orders Operational Process, in force from November 2015, set out 
the procedures to be taken by the Court Orders team following receipt of Production 
Orders, namely: (a) reviewing the orders before logging the detail, and escalating 
them to the legal department where necessary; (b) logging the information onto 
the Bank’s systems; (c) collation of all materials that had been requested to fulfil 
the court order; and (d) supply of collated materials to the requesting officer., 
4.82 A further policy dated 29 June 2015 stated that the Inquiries and Surveillance 
Personal and Corporate Banking team was responsible for liaising with law 
enforcement, in particular in respect of court orders and carrying out investigations 
from FIU intelligence gathering; this policy was replaced by a policy dated  9 
December 2016 which stated that court orders were processed by Barclays’ Court 
Orders Team. It stated that the Court Orders Team will liaise with Investigations 
only if there is a financial crime element to the request and the request is complex, 
and that any subsequent investigation will be recorded in the case management 
system used by the IMI team. 
4.83 Barclays had further supplemental guidance in relation to trigger s for KYC/CDD  
which came into force in or around January 2017. This stated that any court order 
issued under PACE or POCA or originated by HMRC will trigger a full CDD refresh 
and business activity review on the client or any related parties.  
Production Orders relating to James Stunt and Stunt & Co 
4.84 Between August and November  2016, Barclays received the following Production 
Orders requiring documents and information relating to the accounts of Mr Stunt 
and his associated entities, including Stunt & Co. The Production Orders arose from 
a criminal investigation into allegations of money laundering by Fowler Oldfield: 
28 
(a) 11 August 2016 - this required Barclays to provide documents from 5 May 
2016 to 11 August 2016 and annual turnover figures for 2014, 2015 and 2016 
on Stunt & Co ’s account. It also sought “ details only ” of all connected 
accounts; 
(b) 22 August 2016 – this related to Stunt & Co and required the production of 
all related accounts in the preceding 6 years; 
(c) 4 November 2016 – this related to Mr Stunt and required information about 
all accounts for which he was a signatory in the preceding 6 years.  
4.85 Barclays’ Court Orders Team  typically processed court orders ; however the 
Investigation team in IMI  dealt with the receipt and processing of the Production 
Orders received as part of the criminal investigation into Fowler Oldfield. Following 
receipt of the first Production Order, the Investigations team contacted the police. 
4.86 The receipt of multiple Production Orders in 2016 did not trigger a change to the 
risk rating of the Stunt & Co account. 
Request from law enforcement in 2016 
 
Barclays AML Intelligence team 
 
4.87 Barclays had a team in its FIU which was responsible for dealing with requests from 
law enforcement relating to money laundering (“the Barclays AML Intelligence 
team”). The Barclays AML Intelligence team first received these types of requests 
in May 2016. 
Request from law enforcement 
4.88 On 16 August 2016, the Barclays AML Intelligence team recorded in its work log:  
“We are expecting a [request from law enforcement ] in relation to a 
company known as Fowler Oldfield who in the last year have paid £235 
million though their accounts, £206m in cash deposits. The money has been 
laundered through three company accounts [...]”.   
Stunt & Co was named as one of those three accounts.  
29 
4.89 On 17 August 2016, the Barclays AML Intelligence team received the request from 
law enforcement and was informed that this  required an initial response by 19 
August 2016, and that the request should be prioritised.  
4.90 The request from law enforcement stated: “ This is a request for information 
concerning a […] Police investigation of the activities of UK registered company, 
Fowler Oldfield Ltd in relation to suspicions of potential money laundering.” It listed 
a number of “ Subjects”, including Stunt & Co , which was noted as holding an 
account with Barclays. 
4.91 The request explained that Fowler Oldfield was processing significant cash which 
was suspected of being laundered money: “ It has been noted that there is a 
‘prominent smell’ on the cash being deposited which is also made up of a high 
proportion of Scottish Notes. ” Stunt & Co  was specified as one of three main 
recipients of electronic credits from Fowler Oldfield. Stunt & Co did not receive cash 
into the account from Fowler Oldfield. 
4.92 The request further stated: 
“Information contained within this report may be shared within the recipient 
organisation to progress the enquiry. Where data is shared [the issuing 
agency’s] name should be redacted and the request should be refined so 
that only relevant information is sent.” 
4.93 On the day the request was received, the Barclays AML Intelligence team emailed 
Barclays’ Financial Crime Analytics team enquiring which of their customers had 
received money from Fowler Oldfield which was “believed to have laundered the 
proceeds of crime ”. On 17 August 2016 the Barclays AML Intelligence team  
informed Financial Crime Advisory management of “findings and job to date.”  
4.94 On 18 August 2016, Financial Crime Analyst A emailed the Barclays AML 
Intelligence team  attaching the results of their searches and stated, “ This has 
returned 88 cross-border payments […]”. Financial Crime Analyst A identified three 
further Fowler Oldfield account numbers and recommended that their review be 
expanded to look for cross border payments for those three accounts also. Financial 
Crime Analyst A stated that they had included in the results a list of the Barclays 
customers with whom Fowler Oldfield was transacting, and asked the Barclays AML 
Intelligence team to review this and inform them if they wished for any of these 
names and accounts to be included in their secondary search. Financial Crime 
Analyst A identified 20 Barclays customers who had transacted with Fowler Oldfield.  
30 
4.95 The Barclays AML Intelligence team member who had received the request from 
law enforcement responded to Financial Crime Analyst A’s email the same day 
stating, “I think for the initial request this is great I will report back to [the issuing 
agency] as an initial response and further develop when I get chance [sic].” The 
Barclays AML Intelligence team did not however conduct that further development.  
4.96 On 19 August 2016, the Barclays AML Intelligence team emailed FIU management 
regarding the request and stated, “A company known as Fowler Oldfield is reported 
to had [sic] laundered £230 million (£206 million in cash), through its bank 
accounts – the money has been sent to three other companies, one of which is a 
customer of Barclays know [sic] as Stunt & Co”. The Barclays AML Intelligence team 
stated that “ through the initial analysis completed it can be seen  that since July 
2015 to 01 July [sic] [2016] STUNT & Co has received in excess of £59 million from 
Fowler Oldfield”. The Barclays AML Intelligence team noted that the funds appeared 
to have been sent by Stunt & Co  to an account at Bank A. The Barclays AML 
Intelligence team reported that to date it had responded to the initial request from 
law enforcement “by identifying [their] initial exposure”. Barclays does not have a 
record of a response to law enforcement, but has informed the Authority that it 
responded by telephone to the police on 18 August 2016, in which it provided 
details of another Barclays customer account and account numbers for Fowler 
Oldfield that were not included in the request. On 19 August 2016 Barclays 
informed the police, likely by phone, of the signatories of the Stunt & Co account. 
4.97 The Barclays AML Intelligence team  further noted on 19 August 2016 to FIU 
management that it had received from the analysts “other companies who have 
transacted with Fowler Oldfield  – this is in preparation gaining [sic] an 
understanding of the account activity, and identifying any conduct which would be 
of concern for the bank in terms of activity and our customers customer.”  
4.98 The Barclays AML Intelligence team  member who received the request from law 
enforcement informed the Authority that ideally there ought to have  been a full 
analysis of the accounts to see if there was suspicious activity, however they didn’t 
finish this analysis because of resource constraints in the team. They stated to the 
Authority that they did not have sufficient understanding of the facts about Stunt 
& Co to inform any such suspicion.  
4.99 The Barclays AML Intelligence team failed to sufficiently develop the intelligence in 
the request from law enforcement . Neither t he intelligence contained within the 
request, nor the existence of the intelligence, was recorded on any system which 
31 
was visible to relevant staff outside of the Barclays AML Intelligence team, nor was 
there a process in place which could flag to relevant staff that intelligence was held. 
Neither the intelligence in the request from law enforcement nor that fact that there 
was intelligence, was known to the IMI team or the Relationship Director. Analysts 
reviewing transaction monitoring alerts would not be aware that intelligence was 
held that may be relevant to their assessment of account activity of Stunt & Co and 
other parties, and those reviewing any suspicious account activity would not have 
been aware of that intelligence. 
4.100 The Barclays AML Intelligence team showed Financial Crime Advisory management 
the request from law enforcement; the team did not develop the intelligence it had 
received and relied on Financial Crime Advisory management to review the Stunt 
& Co relationship for exposure.  
4.101 In appropriate cases, the Barclays AML Intelligence team  escalated cases to FIU 
management which would escalate the cases to senior management as it saw fit. 
The Barclays AML Intelligence team reported this case to FIU management on 19 
August 2016 because of the potential reputational risk. FIU management forwarded 
the Barclays AML Intelligence team’s request to front office senior management the 
same day describing the circumstances as “ a typical [law enforcement AML 
intelligence] issue, albeit with some u rgency around it” and noting that if 
appropriate, the matter would be handed over to investigations.  
4.102 According to Financial Crime Advisory management, the role of developing 
intelligence received by the Barclays AML Intelligence team to identify any exposure 
that Barclays had would have been within the IMI function and the Barclays AML 
Intelligence team as well. As set out at paragraphs 4.121 to 4.131 below, the IMI 
team was in fact conducting a review into Stunt & Co from September 2016, shortly 
after the request from law enforcement was received by Barclays – however it was 
not made aware of the request.  
4.103 Notwithstanding the intelligence received in the request from law enforcement that 
Fowler Oldfield was making electronic transfers to Stunt & Co in circumstances 
where Fowler Oldfield was being investigated in relation to suspicions of potential 
money laundering, the exposure identified by Financial Crime Analyst A and the 
concerns noted by the Barclays AML Intelligence team , no suspicions of money 
laundering were formed by Barclays  relating to the activity on the Stunt & Co  
account following receipt of the  request from law enforcement. Further, Barclays 
did not conduct at the time an internal investigation or review of the identified 
32 
customers. Despite the exposure review being identified by the Barclays AML 
Intelligence team as a suitable step to be taken, a review of the bank’s exposure 
to Fowler Oldfield  did not take place until 2021  following the Authorit y’s 
announcement of its criminal case against NatWest (see paragraph 4.141). 
4.104 The Authority considers that the intelligence received in the request from law 
enforcement on 17 August 2016 represented a situation which by its nature can 
present a higher risk of money laundering requiring EDD and enhanced ongoing 
monitoring, in accordance with the 2007 Regulations and the JMLSG Guidance (see 
paragraph 4.6). Despite the financial crime red flags that were raised in the  
request, namely that Stunt & Co  was in receipt of substantial funds from a 
suspected money launderer, Stunt & Co was not referred for a risk rating review. 
This was contrary to the JMLSG Guidance which stated that, where appropriate and 
practical, and where there are no data protection restrictions, firms should take 
reasonable steps to ensure that where they have c ustomer due diligence 
information in one part of the business, they are able to link it to information in 
another (see paragraph 4.7). As a result, no EDD nor enhanced ongoing monitoring 
was applied. 
Processes at Barclays for AML requests from law enforcement 
4.105 Barclays did not have any formal policies, reporting lines or governance in place 
for the processing of requests from law enforcement relating to money laundering 
in August 2016 when the request was received. Barclays formalised procedures in 
relation to intelligence relating to money laundering  received from requests from 
law enforcement subsequently.   
Failure to consider other information 
4.106 During the period that the relevant Barclays AML Intelligence team member worked 
on the law enforcement request, they were not aware that Production Orders had 
been received in relation to the Stunt & Co  account or Mr Stunt. Further, those 
dealing with the Production Orders for Stunt & Co were not aware of the intelligence 
in the request from law enforcement. The Barclays AML Intelligence team member 
had no interaction with the Court Orders Unit  or the intelligence or investigation 
teams. The relevant Barclays AML Intelligence team  member did not share the 
information from the request from law enforcement with the IMI team. 
33 
Police raids and adverse media in early autumn 2016 
 
4.107 In September 2016 the police raided the offices of Fowler Oldfield and Stunt & Co. 
It was reported in the media that 12 people were arrested in relation to money 
laundering.  
4.108 Following the raid, the police informed Barclays that the media article regarding 
the raid was factually correct, and that 12 people were arrested at Fowler Oldfield, 
but no arrests were made at Stunt & Co. The police also noted that  there was a 
“close link” between Fowler Oldfield and Stunt & Co, as Gregory Frankel was part 
of the family that owned the Fowler Oldfield business and was a Vice Chairman at 
Stunt & Co. The police confirmed that they had not decided whether to review the 
account of Stunt & Co in any greater detail, and there had been no decision made 
to obtain a restraint/freezing order against Stunt & Co. 
4.109 A Financial Crime Inquiries and Surveillance log in September 2016 recorded that:  
“Adverse media on Stunt and Co. Ltd (bullion and gold sales) and Fowler 
Oldfield (wholesale gold dealer), indi cating raids by UK law enforcement 
reportedly in regards of an internal fraud against Stunt and Co. Cout [sic] 
orders received from UK law enforcement. Account review into Stunt and 
Co […] undertaken by Investigations, Monitoring, Intelligence. 
We have not crystallised suspicion at this stage following an investigation in 
to [sic] the account activity”.  
4.110 The adverse media did not trigger a change to the risk rating of Mr Stunt or any of 
his corporate accounts.  
Application of adverse media policies to press coverage of police raids in 2016 
4.111 Barclays’ 2013 AML policy required a review of the CDD in the event of trigger 
events which included the report of potential suspicious activity. 
4.112 Additionally, a Barclays policy titled “Significant Negative News” dated June 2016 
provided direction when adverse media was identified. It stated that all clients, 
including “Related Parties” (for example, Control Persons and UBOs) identified as 
being the subject of “Significant Negative News” must be automatically referred to 
the EDD team (which was part of the corporate banking financial crime risk team). 
34 
4.113 The Significant Negative News policy stated that w here a client or connected 
individual was subject to significant negative news, especially where criminal 
activity or regulatory enforcement was a feature, this must be reviewed and 
investigated further to ensure the risk was an acceptable one for the Bank as well 
as to determine what additional controls and monitoring may be necessary to risk 
manage that client effectively from a financial crime perspective. 
4.114 The adverse media, and the information obtained from the police, in September 
2016 identified financial crime allegations in relation to Fowler Oldfield. Barclays 
was aware at that time, from its meeting with Stunt & Co on 8 October 2015 and 
from the start of the KYC refresh of Stunt & Co in January 2016, that Stunt & Co 
and Fowler Oldfield had a close business relationship. It was also clear that Barclays 
had not received adequate information about Fowler Oldfield , despite having 
requested it from Stunt & Co. Further, Stunt & Co’s account activity showed that 
substantial funds, both in terms of absolute value and proportion, were received 
by it from Fowler Oldfield. None of those factors appear to have raised concerns at 
Barclays or prompted at that time further CDD/a referral for EDD, contrary to 
Barclays’ policies, and Stunt & Co remained a low-risk customer. 
4.115 Barclays did initiate a review of its relationship with Stunt & Co around the time of 
the police raid. That review by the IMI team is set out at paragraphs 4.121 to 4.131 
below; however, the final report from the IMI team indicates that the reviewer of 
that report was aware of the police raids. The report concluded: “No further action 
required from IMI at the present time”.  
Finalisation of the KYC review 
 
4.116 On 19 November 2016, the Relationship Director  emailed the Financial Crime 
Advisory team in relation to the IMI review known as “Project Dust” stating that 
they were being chased on the KYC refresh for Stunt & Co, and that, whilst they 
were “aware of other matters on-going”, they had received an attachment from Mr 
Stunt’s accountant which , they stated, identified the source of funds placed into 
the Stunt & Co account and Mr Stunt’s source of wealth. The Relationship Director 
stated that there were “doubtless many questions that could still be asked ” but 
they believed that this document provide d sufficient information to address the 
matter of Mr Stunt’s source of wealth for the purpose of the KYC refresh issue  
35 
“whilst other matters continue”. The Financial Crime Advisory team responded on 
21 November 2016 providing its agreement. 
4.117 On 19 December 2016, an Alacra report was produced which included details about 
Stunt & Co, James Stunt and his accountant. The report included significant adverse 
media on the police money laundering raids on Stunt & Co in September 2016. The 
report noted that email confirmation had been received from the Relationship 
Director for Google search results concerning Stunt & Co to be discounted, but no 
rationale was recorded for that decision. The Financial Crime Advisory team noted 
(with the Relationship Director in copy ) on 15 December 2016:  “From a KYC 
perspective you can proceed with the case. Fin Crime is aware of the adverse”.  
4.118 Following completion of the KYC refresh, on 4 January 2017 KYC Manager B emailed 
the Relationship Director requesting that they sign the attestation form regarding 
the KYC completion. This was required due to identification of “significant negative 
news”. The Relationship Director  signed the form on 6 January 2017  with the 
comment: “The adverse press reports have been fully disclosed and discussed with 
the Financial Crime team. We are in ongoing dialogue with them and will continue 
to do so until the present position is satisfactorily resolved […]”. The Authority has 
not seen evidence  of any discussions between the Relationship Director and the 
Financial Crime team which records how they were reassured about the adverse 
news relating to Stunt & Co. The risk rating for Stunt & Co remained “low risk” at 
that time.  
4.119 Barclays informed the Authority that between November 2016 and January 2017 a 
decision was taken to complete the KYC refresh process. It noted that this decision 
was taken “(a) in light of the additional information regarding Stunt & Co, and Mr 
Stunt’s investment in Stunt & Co, that had been obtained during the Refresh, but 
also (b) in the knowledge that the IMI Review was to be conducted, in light of the 
Production Orders and also taking account of the information gathered during the 
Refresh.” 
 
4.120 The Relationship Director attended a further meeting with representatives of Stunt 
& Co on 7 February 2017 at which they appear to have received audited accounts 
for Stunt & Co for the 16 months to March 2016. This was after the completion of 
the KYC refresh in respect of Stunt & Co.  
 
36 
Project Dust/ IMI review from September 2016 
 
4.121 Following the receipt of the Production Order dated 11 August 2016 relating to 
Stunt & Co, in September 2016 Barclays opened “Project Dust” to review the Stunt 
& Co relationship. The matter was referred to IMI for investigation following receipt 
of the Production Order and adverse media of the police raids, and documents were 
sent to Financial Crime Compliance  and the IMI Manager (who was formerly the 
WIM EDD Analyst in a previous role) i n September 2016 and October 2016 . The 
review was conducted by the IMI Manager who had, in their previous role in the 
WIM team, prepared a review of Mr Stunt when Barclays was considering him as a 
Wealth customer. The WIM team had not pursued Mr Stunt as a Wealth customer 
as there had been unresolved questions relating to his source of wealth (see 
paragraphs 4.46 to 4.51). 
4.122 The provisional scoping of the IMI review was to obtain: 
“- full understanding of the commercial and business activities and 
relationships of the Stunt companies (and [in relation to  his source of 
wealth]). Develop understanding of what constitutes their normal 
commercial activity. 
- Drilldown via open source into Folwer Oldfield [sic], and all associated 
known personnel. Develop full understanding of relationship between Fowler 
Oldfield and Stunt companies, inclusive of joint ventures and overall 
transactional activity.  
- Drilldown on properties held, linked companies, tenants, title to properties.  
- Ensure up-to-date knowledge on developing adverse media and integrate 
into account review where relevant.  
- Review of documentation held and alerts held via Fortent [Barclays’ legacy 
internal transaction monitoring system].” 
4.123 On 22 September 2016, in order to assist the IMI Manager with the Project Dust 
review, Financial Crime Compliance sent them the KYC refresh documents, the WIM 
report from 2015, and Mr Stunt’s accountant’s letter regarding his client’s wealth. 
The IMI team was aware of the adverse media, the Production Orders and the 
information provided by the police directly on the raids. The IMI team conducted a 
transactional analysis of the activity in Stunt & Co’s account for the period from 4 
37 
January 2016, and held discussions with the Relationship Director about questions 
they had on the business model and account activity of Stunt & Co . Notably, the 
IMI Manager was not made aware that Barclays had received the request from law 
enforcement received on 17 August 2016, and  was not made aware of the 
intelligence in that request at any stage during the review. 
4.124 The IMI review was completed in March 2017 and a report was prepared setting 
out the findings. The report included information already held by Barclays including 
the brief and mostly generalised information on Mr Stunt’s source of wealth as 
provided by his accountant. No evidence was obtained by Barclays to verify the 
information in the accountant’s letter.  
4.125 The IMI report noted that Stunt & Co had been in a partnership with Fowler Oldfield, 
which at that time was in liquidation (see paragraph 4.9). It stated that Stunt & Co 
acquired gold, smelted it into smaller bars which were sold to Fowler Oldfield being 
the main customer of Stunt & Co.   
4.126 The report noted that a Production Order was received on 8 November 2016 against 
the customer and all connections held by Mr Stunt, over the proceeding 6 year 
period. In noting that the Production Order was acquired by the police, the report 
stated that  “this may indicate that whatever activity was under investigation 
derives from law enforcement interest in FO at first instance, rather than Stunt and 
Company Limited.”  
4.127 The IMI report also records how in September 2016, police raided the offices of 
Stunt & Co and the premises of Fowler Oldfield. The report did not however refer 
to the fact that the adverse media stated that the police raids concerned suspected 
money laundering and that 12 people had been arrested.  
4.128 The report noted that the value of the transactions from Fowler Oldfield to Stunt & 
Co were in line with expectations;  it also noted that the transactions comprised  
round sum amounts of £100,000. The Authority considers that round sum transfers 
may constitute a red flag for money laundering.  There was no commentary or 
analysis in the report to note the round sum transfers as red flags, nor was there 
any explanation as to why the round sum transactions were discounted as money 
laundering red flags.  
4.129 The IMI report conclude d that the transactions on the Stunt & Co  account were 
consistent with their KYC, albeit that the account turnover was lower than expected. 
It stated that the transfers from Fowler Oldfield to Stunt & Co in 2016 were notably 
38 
larger than the financial picture  in Fowler Oldfield ’s unaudited 2014 financial 
statements, however they did not consider “this difference in the volume of funds 
alone to be sufficient to crystallise a suspicion of money laundering”. The report did 
not refer to Stunt & Co’s audited accounts which the Relationship Director appears 
to have received on 7 February 2017 (see paragraph 4.120); the Authority has not 
seen any evidence that these were considered as part of the IMI review.    
4.130 It is unclear to the Authority as to why the IMI report failed to state that the police 
raids on Stunt & Co and Fowler Oldfield related to money laundering and resulted 
in the arrest of 12 people. There was no analysis of any financial crime risks arising 
from the September 2016 police raids. The scoping instructions specified that the 
review was to obtain a full understanding of the relationship between Fowler 
Oldfield and Stunt & Co. Given the clear reference to financial crime in the adverse 
media reports, it is significant that the report failed to record any concern about 
the transfer of tens of millions of pounds into the Barclays Stunt & Co account by 
Fowler Oldfield in 2016 which may have resulted in Barclays being used to receive 
the proceeds of crime.  
4.131 The IMI report recommended that no further action was required from IMI at the 
present time . No concerns of suspicious activity were formed by Barclays , the 
customer risk rating was not changed and there was no recommendation to 
consider exiting the relationship. The finalised report was sent to Financial Crime 
Compliance on 1 March 2017.  
Receipt of further court orders between 2017 and 2020 
 
4.132 Barclays received a further nine court orders in relation to Stunt & Co and related 
entities/individuals between 2017 and 2020. These included: 
(a) a Production Order dated 6 December 2017. This required Barclays to provide 
information relating to Mr Stunt, referring to accounts for Stunt & Co and all 
other accounts to which Mr Stunt was a signatory from 1 August 2016 to the 
date of the order; 
(b) a restraint order dated 29 August 2018  prohibiting the disposal of assets of 
Mr Stunt in addition to those of Stunt & Co and Mr Stunt’s accountant. This 
required information about accounts of Mr Stunt and Stunt & Co; 
(c) a disclosure order dated 15 July 2020 in relation to a confiscation investigation 
requiring statements for certain accounts of Mr Stunt from 29 August 2018 to 
39 
the date of the order and other accounts to which Mr Stunt was or had been 
a signatory in that period. It also sought account opening and KYC documents 
in respect of one of Mr Stunt’s accounts. 
The AML Customer Lifecycle Standard 
4.133 Barclays’ AML Customer Lifecycle Standard was in force  from 1 January 2017  
(replacing the 2013 AML policy) and so was in effect when the court orders set out 
above were received. This set out Barclays’ processes for  dealing with trigger 
events which were events occurring during the customer lifecycle which 
necessitated review of the customer outside the periodic review cycle . It stated 
that the business must have appropriate controls in place to ensure that trigger 
events were identified and that the review was completed within 90 days of the 
trigger event, unless risk concerns, for example significant adverse media, 
necessitated a shorter timeframe for completion. 
4.134 The policy stated that any changes to customer information which were classed as 
trigger events, or as a result of which the business identified that the information 
held for the customer was incomplete or out of date, should trigger a consideration 
to complete a CDD review. This should involve consideration of which trigger events 
will necessitate a full CDD review and which, less significant triggers, will lead to a 
partial review, with the approach to be endorsed by Financial Crime management. 
It stated that the business must consider whether there was a need to conduct a 
CDD review in response to trigger events  including receipt of a financial crime 
related Production Order, customer information order, monitoring order, subpoena 
or local equivalent relating to the customer or account, and receipt of information 
from law enforcement or regulatory authorities. 
4.135 The policy further stated that a CDD review on existing customers must consider 
whether the customer’s risk rating remain ed appropriate and that all conclusions 
on risk rating must be evidenced on the customer’s file. For a review of high risk 
customers, the business must understand and document the reasons for the actual 
account activity differing to the expected activity . The business must consider 
whether the receipt of a court order would trigger a determination to  exit the 
customer relationship. There was also a requirement for the business to keep clear 
records of the review. 
40 
Barclays’ response to the further court orders received in 2017-2020 
4.136 None of the court orders received during 2017-2020 resulted in Barclays assessing 
that the risk rating for Stunt & Co or Mr Stunt required revision; this was contrary 
to the AML Customer Lifecyle Standard which included the receipt of such orders 
as trigger events requiring consideration of a CDD review was needed and whether 
the customer’s risk rating remained appropriate (see paragraphs 4.133 to 4.134). 
Stunt & Co’s and Mr Stunt ’s accounts were frozen pursuant to a restraint order 
from August 2018. Save for a period between March 2019 and May 2020 when it 
was assessed as medium risk (on account of an increase in the product risk rating 
in relation to its US Dollar currency  account), the risk rating  for Stunt & Co  
remained as low risk. No periodic review of the Stunt & Co account took place in 
2018 or 2019 because it was rated low risk. 
4.137 Barclays also failed to consider whether EDD or enhanced monitoring should be 
applied in response to the court orders , notwithstanding that these included a 
restraint order dated 29 August 2018 prohibiting the disposal of Mr Stunt’s assets, 
including those of Stunt & Co . This was contrary to the JMLSG Guidance which 
stated that where the risks of money laundering are higher, firms must conduct 
EDD measures consistent with the risks identified (see Annex A) . Barclays also 
failed at that time to assess the accounts linked to Mr Stunt to consider whether 
there had been any suspicious activity, or whether the relationship with Stunt & Co 
should be terminated.  
Charging of James Stunt and winding up of Stunt & Co in 2020 
4.138 In May 2020, James Stunt was charged with money laundering offences. This did 
not prompt any consideration of whether Barclays should review the account 
activity in respect of Stunt & Co ’s business activities . Mr Stunt was acquitted  of 
those charges on 4 March 2025. 
4.139 On 2 September 2020, the court ordered that Stunt & Co be wound up.  
Closing of Stunt & Co’s accounts in 2020 
4.140 Barclays issued a Notice to Close on all of Stunt & Co’s accounts at Barclays on 6 
March 2020 and the accounts were closed on 23 and 24 April 2020 , with the last 
account closed on 19 October 2020. This was due to a bankruptcy filing on Mr 
Stunt.   
41 
Commencement of Project Rufus in March 2021 
4.141 Following an announcement by Authority in March 2021  that it had decided to 
charge NatWest with criminal offences under the 2007 Regulations, in respect of 
its relationship with Fowler Oldfield , Barclays initiated a review in March 2021 to 
establish its exposure to Fowler Oldfield. The review was named Project Rufus.  
4.142 During Project Rufus, Barclays reviewed its relationship with Stunt & Co and the 
relationship between Stunt & Co  and Fowler Oldfield. Barclays found that  Fowler 
Oldfield had remitted a total of £46.8 million to Stunt & Co, and that 361 of those 
payments were round sum payments of £100,000.  
4.143 Barclays found that, although it had had concerns over Stunt & Co ’s source of 
wealth and had been aware of adverse media relating to this in 2016 , it had 
continued to complete the KYC refresh  in respect of Stunt & Co . The review 
highlighted the absence of key KYC information for Stunt & Co: 
(a) James Stunt’s source of wealth had not been explained in full and there had 
been press speculation that he was reluctant to provide this; and 
 
(b) the KYC file had not evidenced the outcome of further information requested 
from Stunt & Co in early 2016, namely the HRMC audits and CDD procedures 
of Fowler Oldfield, and the additional source of wealth explanation. 
 
4.144 Regarding adverse media, Barclays found that the Relationship Director had relied 
on “an ongoing adverse media investigation” with Financial Crime to sign off the 
KYC refresh in 2017 but that there was no evidence that this was considered at the 
time as a reputation risk red flag. 
4.145 Regarding Stunt & Co’s risk rating, Barclays found that concerns raised throughout 
the client lifecycle should have triggered a review of a possible risk rating override 
to high risk, which would have driven annual KYC reviews. Barclays found that 
there was no evidence that an override of the low risk rating had been considered.  
4.146 The total funds received by Stunt & Co from Fowler Oldfield via electronic transfer 
between July 2015 and August 2016 were £46,803,329.51. Barclays noted that, 
due to concerns around the source of funding from Fowler Oldfield and the high 
value and velocity of the payments, it was concerned that Stunt & Co’s accounts 
were in receipt of the proceeds of crime, in order to purchase high value precious 
metals to use as a vehicle for money laundering. 
42 
Barclays’ self-reporting to the Authority in June 2021 
4.147 On 7 June 2021 Barclays informed the Authority of its findings from Project Rufus 
and of steps it was taking towards remediating  its AML control framework . 
Regarding the suspicious activity it had identified in respect of Stunt & Co, Barclays 
stated that this had not previously been subject to the same level of investigation 
as it had undertaken in 2021, and that as a result the concerns were not identified 
earlier. Barclays stated that this had occurred as a consequence of its Compliance 
Intelligence and Investigations function failing to share intelligence from law 
enforcement relating to money laundering  received during 2016.  Barclays had 
identified that individuals dealing with Production Orders were not aware of the 
request from law enforcement received in August 2016 and therefore did not take 
this information into account when reviewing the Stunt & Co accounts. Barclays 
acknowledged that “there could have been a more joined up approach within the 
Bank to share and utilise the intelligence [in the request from law enforcement]” 
and also stated that since 2016 it had “proactively made changes to the structure 
of the team involved and the processes for handling [law enforcement requests]”.  
4.148 Barclays further stated to the Authority on 12 July 2021 in relation to Stunt & Co: 
“Whilst the new information relating to FO [the information following the Authority’s 
announcement of its prosecution of NatWest] has supported our understanding of 
the overall scope of the alleged criminal conduct, there were several indicators 
identified during 2016 which, when combined should have led to the identification 
of suspicion.”  
5. FAILINGS 
5.1 The regulatory provisions relevant to this Notice are referred to in Annex A. 
5.2 The Authority considers that, by reason of the matters described in section 4 of this 
Notice, Barclays breached Principle 2 during the Relevant Period by failing to 
conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence in respect of the 
identification, assessment, monitoring and management of the money laundering 
risks associated with the provision of banking services to Stunt & Co. In particular: 
(a) In establishing a business relationship with Stunt & Co  in January 2015, 
Barclays failed to obtain sufficient information from Stunt & Co on the nature 
of its business in order appropriately to assess the money laundering risks 
which might be presented by it. This was in breach of Barclays’ own policies 
43 
which required “a sound understanding of the client’s business before entering 
into a relationship with them”. 
(i) Barclays was unaware when the first account was opened on 16 January 
2015 how Stunt & Co’s business was intended to operate, save that the 
nature of its business was stated to be “ Gold Refining & Trading”. 
Barclays allocated Stunt & Co an industry classification of “Jewellery” 
which was not an accurate reflection of its stated business. The 
Relationship Director certified that EDD was not necessary and did not 
record any rationale for this. 
 
(ii) Despite the lack of information about the nature of its business, the KYC 
team certified that all necessary due diligence requirements had been 
discharged. Stunt & Co was assessed as “low risk” for money laundering 
risk purposes.  
 
(b) In assigning a “low risk” rating to Stunt & Co, Barclays failed appropriately to 
assess the fact that, at the point of entering into the business relationship and 
thereafter, it had insufficient information to assess appropriately the money 
laundering risks presented by Stunt & Co . H aving assigned the “low risk” 
rating, Barclays failed to update it in light of relevant information which should 
have been taken into account and led to a re-assessment of whether the risk 
rating was accurate and whether EDD was necessary. 
(i) Barclays failed to address  the discrepancy between the  customer’s 
application form, which had stated that Stunt & Co did not trade outside 
the EU , and information received by the Relationship Director at a 
meeting with Stunt & Co on 27 January 2015 that it intended to source 
gold from specific countries in West Africa and sell it to customers in the 
Middle East. S everal of the countries referred to by Stunt & Co  were 
assessed by Barclays as presenting a high risk for the purposes of 
assessing money laundering risk. This information was not made known 
to the KYC team and so was not taken into account in assessing the risk 
rating applied to Stunt & Co, which remained unchanged.  
 
(ii) Because Barclays did not conduct EDD on Stunt & Co  at the time of 
opening its account, it conducted only limited enquiries into Stunt & Co’s 
source of wealth. Whi lst it established that Mr Stunt intended to  
capitalise Stunt & Co  through a payment of £1.5  million, it made no 
44 
enquiries, prior to opening the account with Stunt & Co, into his source 
of wealth (and thus the source of funds for Stunt & Co). 
(c) Following the opening of Stunt & Co ’s accounts, Barclays failed to conduct 
appropriate ongoing monitoring of the business relationship, including 
scrutiny of the transactions undertaken, to ensure that they were consistent 
with Barclays’ knowledge of Stunt & Co and its business, and in order to keep 
the information obtained for the purpose of applying CDD up to date. 
(i) Between 22 July 2015 and 8 October 2015  (a period of less than three 
months), Stunt & Co  received 105 payments from Fowler Oldfield , 
totalling almost £9 million. These payments, which were frequently 
made in round sums, were inconsistent with Barclays’ understanding of 
Stunt & Co’s business in that: (a) Barclays had, until 8 October 2015, no 
information as to the intended joint venture with Fowler Oldfield; and 
(b) the sums involved represented a turnover significantly in excess of 
what Stunt & Co  had informed Barclays was likely at account opening 
and in a business plan provided on 12 February 2015 . Barclays did not 
identify these significant differences and failed to take reasonable steps 
during that period to ascertain the nature of Stunt & Co’s business or to 
assess what money laundering risks it might present. 
 
(ii) At a meeting with Stunt & Co  on 8 October 2015, the Relationship 
Director was informed that Stunt & Co had entered into a joint venture 
with Fowler Oldfield, as a result of which Stunt & Co ’s revenues were 
expected to increase to £10 million per month. Although the Relationship 
Director obtained some information about the nature of Stunt & Co ’s 
business at that meeting, no immediate steps were taken to verify the 
information provided, to enquire further into the business arrangement 
with Fowler Oldfield, nor to consider whether the change in business 
model and turnover merited a reconsideration of Stunt & Co’s risk rating 
or a need to conduct EDD or enhanced ongoing monitoring. 
(d) When Barclays refreshed its CDD in respect of Stunt & Co from January 2016 
(on account of a media report in November 2015 which questioned the source 
of Mr Stunt’s wealth and/or because other work was being conducted on 
certain associated entities), Barclays failed to obtain, and, where appropriate, 
to verify, sufficient information to enable it to have a sound understanding of 
the nature of Stunt & Co’s business and the money laundering risks presented 
by it. By this time, Stunt & Co had received £20 million from Fowler Oldfield. 
45 
(i) The relationship team identified that Stunt & Co was receiving between 
£300,000 and £900,000 per day from Fowler Oldfield  and that the 
anticipated turnover was £150 -200 million per year. Whilst the 
Relationship Director sought accounting information from Stunt & Co  
around early February 2016, they were told that accounts would not be 
ready until later that year. The KYC refresh was completed in January 
2017 while that accounting information remained outstanding. 
(ii) In February 2016, the Relationship Director requested copies of the CDD 
undertaken by Stunt & Co in respect of Fowler Oldfield. Barclays failed 
to follow up on the inadequate and incomplete CDD information provided 
by Stunt & Co on Fowler Oldfield in order to understand its business with 
Fowler Oldfield. 
(iii) In February 2016, the Relationship Director asked Mr Stunt’s accountant 
to provide evidence of Mr Stunt’s source of wealth. The accountant did 
not provide information on Mr Stunt’s source of wealth until August 2016 
when he stated that Mr Stunt had been reticent to provide such 
information and provided brief and mostly generalised information about 
Mr Stunt’s source of wealth , with no supporting evidence . A lthough 
Barclays maintained a list of permissible source of wealth 
documentation, no further enquiries, or attempts to obtain such 
documentation, were made.  
(e) As a result, although Barclays appreciated the need to understand Stunt & 
Co’s business relationship with Fowler Oldfield, it failed to obtain sufficient 
verification to satisfy itself of the nature of the business being conducted or 
to assess the money laundering risks involved.  
(f) Despite receiving significant information in August 2016 indicating that Fowler 
Oldfield may have been used to launder the proceeds of suspected money 
laundering and that Stunt & Co was one of the main recipients of electronic 
credits from Fowler Oldfield , Barclays failed to consider appropriately what 
effect this may have on the money laundering risks associated with Stunt & 
Co: 
(i) Although Barclays conducted an initial analysis of which of its customers 
may have received monies from Fowler Oldfield and identified Stunt & 
Co as a significant recipient, a further analysis and consideration of how 
this impacted on the money laundering risks presented to Barclays by 
46 
Stunt & Co  was not conducted because of a lack of clear processes, 
resource constraints  and unclear communications. The Barclays AML 
Intelligence team were unaware that Barclays had been served with 
Production Orders requiring the provision of information on Stunt & Co’s 
accounts. 
 
(ii) As a result, Barclays did not at that time assess whether the information 
necessitated a change in Stunt & Co’s risk rating, the application of EDD 
or enhanced monitoring, or termination of the relationship. It did not 
consider whether, in light of the information, there were reasonable 
grounds to suspect that Stunt & Co might have been engaged in money 
laundering. 
(g) Despite identifying media reports in September 2016 that the premises of 
both Stunt & Co  and Fowler Oldfield  had been raided by the police in 
connection with money laundering , and despite the IMI team  separately 
conducting a review of Stunt & Co ’s accounts in September 2016 (as a 
consequence of news of the police raids and  Production Orders received in 
August 2016) to understand its relationship with Fowler Oldfield , Barclays 
considered that the account activity was consistent with its understanding of 
the business. Further, the IMI team were not made aware of the request from 
law enforcement relating to Fowler Oldfield for its review. The IMI team’s 
review did consider a further Production Order which had been received by 
Barclays in respect of Stunt & Co in November 2016 but concluded, apparently 
without verification and despite knowing that Stunt & Co’s offices had been 
searched by the police, that the terms of the Production Order may indicate 
law enforcement interest in Fowler Oldfield, rather than Stunt & Co . As a 
result, no change was made to Stunt & Co ’s risk rating  and no EDD nor 
enhanced monitoring was applied. 
(h) In January 2017, Barclays completed the KYC refresh and certified that all 
necessary due diligence had been conducted . This was despite Barclays not 
having received  responses to outstanding queries  regarding Stunt & Co , 
Fowler Oldfield and the source of Mr Stunt’s wealth, and despite  Barclays 
being aware of a police investigation being conducted into Fowler Oldfield and 
Stunt & Co. As a result, no changes were made to Stunt & Co’s risk rating and 
no EDD nor enhanced ongoing monitoring was applied.   
47 
(i) Barclays continued to assess Stunt & Co as low risk, save for a period between 
March 2019 and May 2020 when it was assessed as medium risk. As a result, 
no periodic annual review of Stunt & Co’s accounts was conducted by Barclays 
in 2018 or 2019. This was despite Barclays receiving a number of court orders 
relating to James Stunt and Stunt & Co in 2018 and 2019, including a restraint 
order in August 2018 which prohibited the operation of the accounts. Despite 
this, Barclays failed to conduct further reviews of its relationship with Stunt & 
Co or its risk rating, or consider whether EDD or enhanced monitoring should 
be applied or whether the relationship should be terminated.  
(j) the fact of Mr Stunt being charged with money laundering offences  in May 
20201 did not prompt any consideration of whether Barclays should review 
the account activity of Stunt & Co. It was only after Barclays learned in March 
2021 of the Authority’s decision to charge NatWest with criminal offences 
under the 2007 Regulations, in respect of its relationship with Fowler Oldfield, 
that Barclays commenced a significant investigation in respect of Stunt & Co 
and certain other customers who had received funds from Fowler Oldfield.  
5.3 Between July 2015 and August 2016, Stunt & Co  received 561 payments from 
Fowler Oldfield , totalling £46.8 million. 361 of these payments were round 
payments of £100,000. The Authority considers that those monies represented the 
proceeds of crime and that Stunt & Co’s account was used to launder the funds. 
6. SANCTION 
Financial penalty 
6.1 The Authority’s policy for imposing a financial penalty is set out in Chapter 6 of 
DEPP. In respect of conduct occurring on or after 6 March 2010, the Authority 
applies a five -step framework to determine the appropriate level of financial 
penalty. DEPP 6.5A sets out the details of the five -step framework that applies in 
respect of financial penalties imposed on firms. 
Step 1: disgorgement  
6.2 Pursuant to DEPP 6.5A.1G, at Step 1 the Authority seeks to deprive a firm of the 
financial benefit derived directly from the breach where it is practicable to quantify 
this. 
 
1 Mr Stunt was acquitted of those charges in March 2025. 
48 
6.3 The Authority has not identified any financial benefit that Barclays derived directly 
from its breach. 
6.4 Step 1 is therefore £0. 
Step 2: the seriousness of the breach 
6.5 Pursuant to DEPP 6.5A.2G, at Step 2 the Authority determines a figure that reflects 
the seriousness of the breach. Where the amount of revenue generated by a firm 
from a particular product line or business area is indicative of the harm or potential 
harm that its breach may cause, that figure will be based on a percentage of the 
firm’s revenue from the relevant products or business area.  
6.6 The Authority considers that the revenue generated by Barclays is not an 
appropriate indicator of the harm or potential harm caused by its breach.  The 
Authority has therefore determined that the total funds transferred from Fowler 
Oldfield to Stunt & Co ’s account at Barclays, which the Authority considers  
represented the proceeds of crime, is the appropriate indicator of the harm in this 
case. That figure is £46,803,329.51.  
6.7 In cases where revenue is not the appropriate indicator of the harm or potential 
harm of the firm's breach, DEPP 6.5A.2G(13) allows the Authority to adopt a scale 
other than the 0 -20% scale prescribed in DEPP 6.5A.2G(3).  Accordingly, the 
Authority has used a 0 -125% range to ensure the penalty properly reflects the 
seriousness of the breach.  The Authority has applied the following levels for the 
purposes of this case: 
Level 1 – 0% 
Level 2 – 50% 
Level 3 – 75% 
Level 4 – 100% 
Level 5 – 125% 
6.8 In assessing the seriousness level, the Authority takes into account various factors 
which reflect the impact and nature of the breach, and whether it was committed 
deliberately or recklessly. DEPP 6.5A.2G(11) lists factors likely to be considered 
‘level 4 or 5 factors’. Of these, the Authority considers the following factors to be 
relevant: 
49 
 
(a) Financial crime was facilitated, occasioned or otherwise attributable to 
the breach (DEPP 6.5A.2G(11)(c)) 
6.9 Taking all of these factors into account, the Authority considers the seriousness of 
the breach to be level 4 and so the Step 2 figure is 100% of £46,803,329.51.   
6.10 Step 2 is therefore £46,803,329.51. 
Step 3: mitigating and aggravating factors 
6.11 Pursuant to DEPP 6.5A.3G, at Step 3 the Authority may increase or decrease the 
amount of the financial penalty arrived at after Step 2, but not including any 
amount to be disgorged as set out in Step 1, to take into account factors which 
aggravate or mitigate the breach. 
6.12 The Authority considers that the factors below aggravate the breach. 
6.13 The Authority has imposed financial penalties on Barclays for breaches of 
regulatory requirements on previous occasions:  
(a) on 19 August 2009, the Authority fined Barclays £2.5 million for breaches of 
Principles 2 and 3 relating to Barclays’ submissions of inaccurate transaction 
reports to the Authority in an estimated 57.5 million transactions; 
 
(b) on 14 January 2011, the Authority fined Barclays £7.7 million for breaches of 
Principle 9 and COBS 9.2.1R relating to the provision of unsuitable investment 
advice to retail customers; 
 
(c) on 27 June 2012, the Authority fined  Barclays £59.5 million for breaches of 
Principles 2, 3 and 5 for misconduct relating to its submissions of rates which 
formed part of LIBOR; 
 
(d) on 23 May 2014 , the Authority fined  Barclays £26 million for breaches of 
Principles 3 and 8 for failing to manage conflicts of interest, as well as systems 
and controls failings in relation to London Gold Fixing; 
 
(e) on 23 September 2014 , the Authority fined  Barclays £37.7 million for 
breaches of Principles 3 and 10 for failing to adequately handle and have 
adequate systems and controls to protect £16.5 billion of its client assets;  
 
50 
(f) on 20 May 2015, the Authority fined Barclays £284.4 million for a breach of 
Principle 3 for failing to take reasonable care to organise and manage its 
foreign exchange business effectively; 
 
(g) on 26 November 2015, the Authority fined Barclays £72 million for a breach 
of Principle 2 for failing to minimise the risk that it may be used to facilitate 
financial crime; 
 
(h) on 15 December 2020, the Authority fined Barclays £26 million for breaches 
of Principle 6, Principle 3 and CONC for failures relation to their treatment of 
consumer credit customers who fell into arrears or experienced financial 
difficulties; 
 
(i) on 28 February 2022, the Authority fined Barclays £783,800 for a breach of 
Principle 2 for failures related to financial crime in the corporate banking 
sector; and 
 
(j) on 25 November 2024, the Authority fined Barclays £10 million and Barclays 
Plc £30 million for breaches of listing rules in relation to failure to the disclose 
information to the issuer sector.  
6.14 Since 1990, the JMLSG has published detailed written guidance on AML controls. 
During the Relevant Period, the JMLSG provided guidance on compliance with the 
legal requirements of the 2007 Regulations, regulatory requirements in the 
Handbook and evolving practice in the financial services industry.  
6.15 Before, or during, the Relevant Period, the Authority issued the following 
guidance relating to AML controls: 
(a) in March 2008, the Authority published its findings of a thematic review of 
firms’ AML processes in a report titled “ Review of firms’ implementation of a 
risk-based approach to anti-money laundering”. It included examples of good 
and poor industry practice and reminded firms that their approach to AML 
should be aligned with the JMLSG Guidance; 
(b) in June 2011, the Authority published a report titled “ Banks’ management of 
high money -laundering risk situations: How banks deal with high -risk 
customers (including politically exposed persons), correspondent banking 
relationships and wire transfers ”. The report highlighted the importance of 
51 
applying meaningful EDD measures in higher risk situations and noted the 
importance of carrying out enhanced monitoring of high-risk relationships, 
including as an example of good practice that firms should proactively follow 
up gaps in, and update, CDD during the course of a relationship. 
(c) in December 2011, the Authority published “ Financial Crime: A Guide for 
Firms”. The guide highlight ed the need to conduct adequate CDD checks, 
perform ongoing monitoring and carry out EDD measures and enhanced 
ongoing monitoring when handling higher risk situations; and 
(d) in April 2015, the Authority published “Financial crime: a guide for firms Part 
1: A firm’s guide to preventing financial crime ” which set out examples of 
good and poor industry practice to assist firms.  
6.16 The Authority has published a number of Notices against firms for AML weaknesses 
both before and during the Relevant Period, including in respect of  Alpari (UK) 
Limited in May 2010, Coutts & Company in March 2012, Habib Bank AG Zurich in 
May 2012, Turkish Bank (UK) Ltd in July 2012, EFG Private Bank Ltd in April 2013, 
Guaranty Trust Bank (UK) Ltd in August 2013, Standard Bank Plc in January 2014, 
Sonali Bank (UK) Ltd in October 2016, Deutsche Bank AG in January 2017 and 
Commerzbank AG in June 2020. 
6.17 Consequently, Barclays was aware, or ought to have been aware, of the importance 
of identifying, assessing, monitoring and managing the money laundering risks in 
respect of its relationship with Stunt & Co to counter the risk that the Bank might 
be used to further financial crime. 
6.18 The Authority acknowledges that Barclays proactively reported the findings of its 
2021 review to the Authority and cooperated fully with the Authority throughout 
the course of its investigation. Those actions reflect the Authority’s expectations of 
authorised firms and are not factors that mitigate the breach. 
6.19 However, the Authority acknowledges that the review conducted by Barclays in 
2021 of its own exposure to Fowler Oldfield, following the Authority’s 
announcement that it had charged NatWest with criminal offences under the 2007 
Regulations, was extensive and of a nature that mitigates the breach. 
6.20 Having taken into account these aggravating and mitigating factors, the Authority 
considers that the Step 2 figure should be increased by 20%. 
6.21 Step 3 is therefore £56,163,995.41. 
52 
Step 4: adjustment for deterrence 
6.22 Pursuant to DEPP 6.5A.4G, if the Authority considers the figure arrived at after Step 
3 is insufficient to deter the firm who committed the breach, or others, from 
committing further or similar breaches, then the Authority may increase the 
penalty. 
6.23 The Authority considers that the Step 3 figure of £ 56,163,995.41 represents a 
sufficient deterrent to Barclays and others, and so has not increased the penalty at 
Step 4. 
6.24 Step 4 is therefore £56,163,995.41. 
Step 5: settlement discount 
6.25 Pursuant to DEPP 6.5A.5G, if the Authority and the firm on whom a penalty is to 
be imposed agree the amount of the financial penalty and other terms, DEPP 6.7 
provides that the amount of the financial penalty which might otherwise have been 
payable will be  reduced to reflect the stage at which the Authority and the firm 
reached agreement. The settlement discount does not apply to the disgorgement 
of any benefit calculated at Step 1. 
6.26 The Authority and Barclays reached agreement at Stage 1 and so a 30% discount 
applies to the Step 4 figure. 
6.27 Step 5 is therefore £39,314,796.79. This is to be rounded down to £39,314,700.   
Penalty 
6.28 The Authority hereby imposes a total financial penalty of £39,314,700 on 
Barclays for breaching Principle 2.  
7. PROCEDURAL MATTERS 
7.1 This Notice is given to Barclays under and in accordance with section 3 90 of the 
Act.   
7.2 The following statutory rights are important. 
Decision maker  
7.3 The decision which gave rise to the obligation to give this Notice was made by the 
Settlement Decision Makers.  
53 
Manner and time for payment  
 
7.4 The financial penalty must be paid in full by Barclays to the Authority no later than 
28 July 2025. 
 
If the financial penalty is not paid  
 
7.5 If all or any of the financial penalty is outstanding on 29 July 2025, the Authority 
may recover the outstanding amount as a debt owed by Barclays and due to the 
Authority. 
 
Publicity  
 
7.6 Sections 391(4), 391(6) and 391(7) of the Act apply to the publication of 
information about the matter to which this Notice relates. Under those provisions, 
the Authority must publish such information about the matter to which this Notice 
relates as the Authority considers appropriate. The information may be published 
in such manner as the Authority considers appropriate. However, the Authority may 
not publish information if such publication would, in the opinion of the Authority, 
be unfair to Barclays or prejudicial to the interests of consumers or detrimental to 
the stability of the UK financial system.  
7.7 The Authority intends to publish such information about the matter to which this 
Final Notice relates as it considers appropriate.  
Authority contacts 
7.8 For more information concerning this matter generally, contact Roshani Pulle at the 
Authority (direct line: 020 7066 6241/email: Roshani.pulle3@fca.org.uk). 
 
 
 
Deidre O’Sullivan 
 
Head of Department 
 
Financial Conduct Authority, Enforcement and Market Oversight Division 
  
54 
ANNEX A 
RELEVANT STATUTORY AND REGULATORY PROVISIONS AND GUIDANCE 
1. RELEVANT STATUTORY PROVISIONS 
1.1. The Authority’s operational objectives, established in section 1B of the Act, include 
protecting and enhancing the integrity of the UK financial system (section 1D(1) of 
the Act). The integrity of the UK financial system includes it not being used for a 
purpose connected with financial crime (section 1D(2)(b) of the Act). 
1.2. Pursuant to section 206(1) of the Act, if the Authority considers that an authorised 
person has contravened a requirement imposed upon that person by or under the 
Act, it may impose on that person a penalty in respect of the contravention of such 
amount as it appears appropriate. 
The 2007 Regulations 
1.3. The Money Laundering Regulations 2007 (referred to in this Notice as the “ 2007 
Regulations”) were in force from 15 December 2007 to 25 June 2017 inclusive and 
have been replaced by the Money Laundering Regulations 2017, in respect of 
conduct beginning on or after 26 June 2017. In this Notice, the Authority refers to 
the Money Laundering Regulations 2007 for the part of the Relevant Period which 
occurred when the Money Laundering Regulations 2007 were in force. 
Relevant extracts from the 2007 Regulations 
1.4. Regulation 5 stated: 
(1) ““Customer due diligence measures” means— 
(a) identifying the customer and verifying the customer’s identity on the 
basis of documents, data or information obtained from a reliable and 
independent source; 
(b) identifying, where there is a beneficial owner who is not the customer, 
the beneficial owner and taking adequate measures, on a risk-sensitive 
basis, to verify his identity so that the relevant person is satisfied that 
he knows who the beneficial owner is, including, in the case of a legal 
person, trust or similar legal arrangement, measures to understand the 
ownership and control structure of the person, trust or arrangement; 
and 
55 
(c) obtaining information on the purpose and intended nature of the 
business relationship.” 
1.5. Regulation 6 stated: 
(1) In the case of a body corporate, “beneficial owner” means any individual 
who— 
(a) as respects any body other than a company whose securities are listed 
on a regulated market, ultimately owns or controls (whether through 
direct or indirect ownership or control, including through bearer share 
holdings) more than 25% of the shares or voting rights in the body; or 
(b) as respects any body corporate, otherwise exercises control over the 
management of the body. 
1.6. Regulation 7 stated: 
(1) “Subject to regulations 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 16(4) and 17, a relevant person 
must apply customer due diligence measures when he— 
(a) establishes a business relationship; 
(b) carries out an occasional transaction; 
(c) suspects money laundering or terrorist financing; 
(d) doubts the veracity or adequacy of documents, data or information 
previously obtained for the purposes of identification or verification. 
(2) Subject to regulation 16(4), a relevant person must also apply customer 
due diligence measures at other appropriate times to existing customers on 
a risk-sensitive basis. 
(3) A relevant person must— 
(a) determine the extent of customer due diligence measures on a risk-
sensitive basis depending on the type of customer, business 
relationship, product or transaction; and 
(b) be able to demonstrate to his supervisory authority that the extent of 
the measures is appropriate in view of the risks of money laundering 
and terrorist financing.” 
56 
1.7. Regulation 8 stated: 
(1) “A relevant person must conduct ongoing monitoring of a business 
relationship. 
(2)  “Ongoing monitoring” of a business relationship means— 
(a) scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the 
relationship (including, where necessary, the source of funds) to ensure 
that the transactions are consistent with the relevant person’s 
knowledge of the customer, his business and risk profile; and 
(b) keeping the documents, data or information obtained for the purpose of 
applying customer due diligence measures up-to-date. 
(3) Regulation 7(3) applies to the duty to conduct ongoing monitoring under 
paragraph (1) as it applies to customer due diligence measures.” 
1.8. Regulation 14 stated: 
(1) “A relevant person must apply on a risk-sensitive basis enhanced customer 
due diligence measures and enhanced ongoing monitoring— 
(a) in accordance with paragraphs (2) to (4); 
(b) in any other situation which by its nature can present a higher risk of 
money laundering or terrorist financing.” 
2. RELEVANT REGULATORY PROVISIONS 
Principles for Businesses 
2.1. The Principles are a general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms 
under the regulatory system and are set out in the Authority’s Handbook. They 
derive their authority from the Authority’s rule-making powers as set out in the Act 
and reflect the Authority’s regulatory objectives. 
2.2. During the Relevant Period, Principle 2 stated: 
“A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.” 
57 
DEPP 
2.3. Chapter 6 of DEPP, which forms part of the Authority’s Handbook, sets out the 
Authority’s statement of policy with respect to the imposition and amount of 
financial penalties under the Act. 
3. RELEVANT REGULATORY GUIDANCE 
The JMLSG Guidance 
3.1. The JMLSG Guidance outlines the legal and regulatory framework for 
AML/countering terrorist financing requirements and systems across the financial 
services sector. It provides interpretation on the requirements of the relevant law 
and legislation and indicates good industry practice through a proportionate, risk -
based approach. It is comprised of three parts. 
3.2. The JMLSG Guidance provisions set out below are taken from the November 2014 
version of the guidance. The JMLSG Guidance is periodically updated ; there were 
no changes to the provisions set out below during the Relevant Period , except 
where otherwise indicated below. 
Relevant extracts from the JMLSG Guidance 
Part I, Chapter 4 Risk-based approach 
3.3. Paragraph 4.13 stated: 
“Whatever approach is considered most appropriate to the firm’s money 
laundering/terrorist financing risk, the broad objective is that the firm should 
know at the outset of the relationship who [their customers (in place from 
November 2014) / its customers (and, where relevant, beneficial owners) (in 
place from December 2017)] are, where they operate, what they do, their 
expected level of activity with the firm [and whether or not they are likely to be 
engaged in criminal activity (in place from November 2014, not from December 
2017)]. The firm then should consider how the profile of the customer’s financial 
behaviour builds up over time, thus allowing the firm to identify transactions or 
activity that may be suspicious.”  
3.4. Paragraph 4.51 stated: 
“Where the risks of ML/TF are higher, firms must conduct enhanced due diligence 
measures consistent with the risks identified. In particular, they [should (in place 
58 
from November 2014) / must (in place from December 2017)] [as far as 
reasonably possible, examine the background and purpose of the transaction; 
and (in place from December 2017)] increase the degree and nature of 
monitoring of the business relationship, in order to determine whether these 
transactions or activities appear unusual or suspicious. Examples of [other (in 
place from December 2017)] EDD measures that [, depending on the 
requirements of the case, (in place from December 2017)] could be applied for 
higher risk business relationships include: 
➢ Obtaining, and where appropriate verifying, additional information on the 
customer and updating more regularly the identification of the customer and 
any beneficial owner 
➢ Obtaining additional information on the intended nature of the business 
relationship  
➢ Obtaining information on the source of funds or source of wealth of the 
customer  
➢ Obtaining information on the reasons for intended or performed transactions  
➢ Obtaining the approval of senior management to commence or continue the 
business relationship  
➢ Conducting enhanced monitoring of the business relationship, by increasing 
the number and timing of controls applied, and selecting patterns of 
transactions that need further examination  
➢ Requiring the first payment to be carried out through an account in the 
customer’s name with a bank subject to similar CDD standards” 
 
Part I, Chapter 5 Customer Due Diligence 
Application of CDD measures 
3.5. Paragraph 5.3.15 stated: 
“As risk dictates […] firms must take steps to ensure that they hold appropriate 
information to demonstrate that they are satisfied that they know all their 
customers. Where the identity of an existing customer has already been verified 
to a previously applicable standard then, in the absence of circumstances 
indicating the contrary, the risk is likely to be low. A range of trigger events, such 
as an existing customer applying to open a new account or establish a new 
relationship, might prompt a firm to seek appropriate evidence.” 
59 
Enhanced due diligence 
3.6. Paragraph 5.5.1 stated: 
“A firm must apply EDD measures on a risk-sensitive basis in any situation which 
by its nature can present a higher risk of money laundering or terrorist financing. 
As part of this, a firm may conclude, under its risk-based approach, that the 
information it has collected as part of the customer due diligence process […] is 
insufficient in relation to the money laundering or terrorist financing risk, and that 
it must obtain additional information about a particular customer, the customer’s 
beneficial owner, where applicable, and the purpose and intended nature of the 
business relationship.” 
3.7. Paragraph 5.5.2 stated: 
“As a part of a risk-based approach, therefore, firms should hold sufficient 
information about the circumstances and business of their customers and, where 
applicable, their customers’ beneficial owners, for two principal reasons: 
➢ to inform its risk assessment process, and thus manage its money 
laundering/terrorist financing risks effectively; and 
➢ to provide a basis for monitoring customer activity and transactions, thus 
increasing the likelihood that they will detect the use of their products and 
services for money laundering and terrorist financing.” 
3.8. Paragraph 5.5.6 stated: 
“When someone becomes a new customer, or applies for a new product or 
service, or where there are indications that the risk associated with an existing 
business relationship might have increased, the firm should, depending on the 
nature of the product or service for which they are applying, request information 
as to the customer’s residential status, employment and salary details, and other 
sources of income or wealth […] in order to decide whether to accept the 
application or continue with the relationship. The firm should consider whether, in 
some circumstances, evidence of source of wealth or income should be required 
[…]. The firm should also consider whether or not there is a need to enhance its 
activity monitoring in respect of the relationship. A firm should have a clear policy 
regarding the escalation of decisions to senior management concerning the 
acceptance or continuation of high-risk business relationships.” 
3.9. Paragraph 5.5.7 stated:  
60 
“The availability and use of other financial information held is important for 
reducing the additional costs of collecting customer due diligence information and 
can help increase a firm’s understanding of the risk associated with the business 
relationship. Where appropriate and practical, therefore, and where there are no 
data protection restrictions, firms should take reasonable steps to ensure that 
where they have customer due diligence information in one part of the business, 
they are able to link it to information in another.”  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
