   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
    
 
  
 
         
         
         
      
        
        
 
 
          
 
 
   
 
          
        
       
         
       
 
                
       
         
FINAL NOTICE 
To: Institute of Certified Bookkeepers 
Ref No: 489802 
Address: Oakingham House, Frederick Place, High Wycombe, 
Buckinghamshire, England, HP11 1JU 
Date: 28 November 2025 
1. ACTION 
1.1 For the reasons given in this Notice, the Financial Conduct Authority (“the 
Authority”) hereby imposes on the Institute of Certified Bookkeepers (“ICB”) a 
public censure pursuant to Regulation 16 of the Oversight of Professional Body 
Anti-Money Laundering and Coun ter Terrorist Financing Supervision Regulations 
2017 for breaching certain provisions of The Money Laundering, Terrorist 
Financing and Transfer of Funds (Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017 
(“MLRs 2017”). 
1.2 The public censure takes the form of this Final Notice, which will be published on 
the Authority’s website. 
2. SUMMARY OF REASONS 
2.1. ICB is an international Professional Body Supervisor (“PBS”) for bookkeepers and 
a not-for-profit organisation, which seeks to promote and maintain the standards 
of bookkeeping as a profession . In the UK, ICB is responsible under the MLRs 
2017 for supervising over 3,000 member s (“Members”), with a focus on 
monitoring each Member’s compliance with the requirements of the MLRs 2017. 
2.2. In turn, ICB is one of twenty-five PBSs in the legal and accountancy sectors that 
are supervised by the Office for Professional Body A nti-Money Laundering 
Supervision (“OPBAS”), which is part of the Authority . The UK government 
1 
   
 
 
 
 
 
          
         
        
  
 
           
         
             
          
              
         
       
 
   
 
          
 
          
          
  
            
       
  
         
  
   
            
       
 
          
        
         
  
established OPBAS in 201 8 with two key objectives : (i) to ensure robust and 
consistently high standards of supervision by the PBSs, and (ii) to facilitate 
collaboration a long with information and int elligence sharing between PBSs, 
statutory supervisors and law enforcement agencies. 
2.3. Between 1 January 2022 and 26 July 2023 (“the Relevant Period”), ICB breached 
certain provisions of the MLRs 2017. A number of the breaches were either caused 
or exacerbated by a decision ICB took to suspend inspections for over nine 
months, between 17 October 2022 and 26 July 2023 (“the Suspension Period”). 
There were several serious issues and risks that ICB was facing in the run up to 
the Suspension Period, which made the need to recommence inspections a 
priority. Despite this, it took ICB over nine months to do so. 
2.4. During the Relevant Period, 1 January 2022 to 26 July 2023, ICB: 
2.4.1. did not effectively monitor its members, as required by regulation 46(1) 
MLRs 2017; 
2.4.2. did not adopt an adequate risk -based approach to the exercise of its 
supervisory functions, which needed to be informed by risk assessments 
carried out under Regulation 17 MLRs 2017, as required by Regulation 
46(2)(a) MLRs 2017; 
2.4.3. failed to base the frequency and intensity of its onsite and off -site 
supervision on the risk profiles prepared under Regulation 17(4), as 
required by Regulation 46(2)(c); and 
2.4.4. failed to regularly review Members’ risk profiles as required by Regulation 
17(8) MLRs 2017. 
2.5. During the Suspension Period, 17 October 2022 to 26 July 2023, ICB: 
2.5.1. failed to keep a record in writing of the actions it has taken in the course 
of its supervision, and of its reasons for deciding not to act in a particular 
case, in breach of Regulation 46(2)(d); and 
2.5.2. failed to take appropriate measures to review the adequacy of the 
policies, controls and procedures adopted by relevant persons and the 
way in which those policies and controls had been implemented, as 
required by Regulation 46(4)(b) MLRs 2017. 
2 
   
 
 
 
 
 
    
         
   
        
         
       
  
 
             
          
        
          
            
         
      
         
        
         
           
           
        
          
           
 
 
            
            
       
           
            
         
         
    
      
       
           
2.6. The MLRs 2017 required ICB to carry out risk assessments, formulate risk profile 
scores for each ICB Member, and use that information to determine the frequency 
and intensity of its on-site and off-site supervision of those Members. In order to 
conduct risk assessments and produce risk profiles, ICB used AML Software A, 
which required Members to regularly input data, which was then fed into an 
algorithm to determine each Member ’s risk profile score (low, medium or high 
risk). 
2.7. In the period 1 January 2022 to 16 October 2022, there were known issues with 
the data and with Member compliance with ICB ’s requirements to provide 
information. The position was such that ICB’s Compliance team had limited 
confidence in the accuracy of the risk assessments and risk profiles that were 
produced during this period. In practice, this meant ICB could not use them as a 
reliable basis to target its key supervisory activities, such as inspections. There 
was also a lack of understanding within ICB about how exactly the risk pr ofiles 
were calculated by AML Software A, which further undermined confidence in the 
risk profiles produced. These issues meant that the focus of ICB’s supervisory 
activity during this period, including its inspection activity, came to be driven 
primarily by one risk factor: whether or not Members were using AML Software A 
and keeping their data on it up-to-date. As a result, ICB did not have reliable risk 
profile scores to target its inspection activity on Members with the highest risk . 
This was not an adequate risk-based approach to the exercise of ICB’s supervisory 
functions, in breach of Regulation 46(2)(a) and (c) and Regulation 46(1) MLRs 
2017. 
2.8. Although ICB was taking steps to improve the position, it is against this backdrop 
that a decision was made on 17 October 2022 to suspend all inspections (“the 
Suspension Period”). This included both onsite and virtual inspections using Zoom. 
It also involved the suspension of desk -based reviews, known as AML Member 
Reviews, for a period of approximately six months. The decision was made without 
any plan to mitigate the impact on ICB’s ability to adequately supervise its 
Members during the Suspension Period. Onsite and Zoom inspections were crucial 
elements of ICB’s supervisory approach, because they were ICB’s most intensive 
supervisory tools in terms of their scope and levels of scrutiny. They were 
particularly important in circumstances where ICB was acutely aware that there 
were concerns about the completeness and accuracy of the data it held at that 
3 
   
 
 
 
 
 
           
 
 
          
           
          
    
        
             
          
          
         
 
 
         
         
         
         
           
 
 
            
        
          
          
         
  
 
       
        
       
        
      
     
 
   
 
  
point in time , and by extension , with the risk profiles ICB was supposed to be 
using to target onsite and off-site supervision. 
2.9. The impression held by ICB’s Compliance Team was that the suspension of 
inspections would be for a few weeks and a list of Members to be inspected 
urgently following the lifting of the Suspension Period was drawn up. Despite this, 
the Suspension Period lasted for nine months until 26 July 2023. This meant that 
during the Suspension Period, when ICB had concerns with Members’ compliance 
with the MLRs 2017, it did not have an appropriate process or strategy to monitor 
or inspect those Members and take necessary measures to ensure compliance 
with the MLRs 2017. This was not an appropriate risk-based approach and further 
exacerbated the breaches of Regulation 46(2)(a) and (c) and Regulation 46(1) of 
the MLRs 2017. 
2.10. It was only during inspections that ICB could look at policies and procedures which 
were not otherwise available to ICB. Therefore, ICB was also in breach of 
Regulation 46(4)(b) during the Suspension Period, which required ICB to take 
appropriate measures to review the adequacy of the policies, controls and 
procedures adopted by Members and the way in which those policies, controls and 
procedures had been implemented. 
2.11. The Authority has found that ICB failed to regularly review or validate ICB’s risk 
categories and methodology for categorising risk because during the Relevant 
Period key staff responsible for compliance and targeting supervisory activity at 
ICB did not fully understand how the algorithm on AML Software A worked and 
therefore how precisely it calculated Members’ risk profiles. This was a breach of 
Regulation 17(8) MLRs 2017. 
2.12. The Authority has also determined that ICB has poor records of its supervisory 
activities and key supervisory decisions during the Suspension Period . In 
particular, ICB has an absence of supporting documentation relating to the 
decision to suspend onsite and Zoom inspections from 17 October 2022, with no 
written record setting out a reasoned explanation. The failure to maintain written 
records of this type was in clear breach of Regulation 46(2)(d) MLRs 2017. 
2.13. The Authority has therefore decided to publicly censure ICB. 
3. DEFINITIONS 
4 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
     
 
          
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
       
  
 
         
  
 
          
 
      
  
 
     
       
 
       
        
The definitions below are used in this Notice: 
“AML” means Anti-Money Laundering; 
“the Act” means the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000; 
“AML Software A” means the software used by ICB to hold data on ICB Members 
for the purpose of supervising their compliance with the MLRs 2017; 
“AML Member Reviews” means desk-based reviews of Members’ AML compliance 
involving open-source research, checks of Members ’ records on AML Software A 
and searches on intelligence databases; 
“the Authority” means the Financial Conduct Authority; 
“ICB” means the Institute of Certified Bookkeepers; 
“Members” means members of the Institute of Certified Bookkeepers that had ICB 
practising licences; 
“Software Company Z” means a software company that owned and provided AML 
Software A to ICB; 
“the MLRs 2007” mean the Money Laundering Regulations 2007, which have been 
revoked and replaced by the MLRs 2017; 
“the MLRs 2017” mean the Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and Transfer of 
Funds (Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017; 
“OPBAS” means the Office for Professional Body Anti -Money Laundering 
Supervision, which is part of the Authority; 
“the OPBAS Regulations 2017” means the Oversight of Professional Body Anti -
Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Financing Supervision Regulations 2017; 
“PBS” means a professional body supervisor in the legal and accountancy sectors 
which is supervised by OPBAS under the OPBAS Regulations 2017 and has the 
5 
   
 
 
 
 
 
         
  
 
    
 
           
         
             
    
 
    
 
       
        
 
 
    
 
 
 
            
          
       
           
 
 
               
          
     
 
      
       
           
      
            
       
   
same meaning as a self-regulatory organisation as set out in Regulation 2 of the 
OPBAS Regulations 2017; 
“the Relevant Period” means from 1 January 2022 to 26 July 2023; 
“the Suspension Period” means from 17 October 2022 to 26 July 2023 when all 
onsite inspections and equivalent Zoom inspections were suspended at ICB 
(unless they had already been arranged prior to 17 October 2022). It also includes 
a six-month period when AML Member Reviews were suspended; 
“the Tribunal” means the Upper Tribunal (Tax and Chancery Chamber); and 
“TCSPs” means trust and company service providers that provide services related 
to formation, management, and administration of legal entities like trusts and 
companies. 
4. FACTS AND MATTERS 
Background 
4.1. ICB was founded in 1996 in the UK as a professional body for bookkeepers . In 
2007, the MLRs 2007 came into force, making it a legal requirement for 
bookkeepers in public practice to be supervised by a HM Treasury-appointed body 
such as ICB and to implement money laundering controls to identify, prevent, and 
report money laundering offences. 
4.2. On 26 June 2017, the MLRs 2017 replaced the MLRs 2007. One of the implications 
of the MLRs 2017 was that they required those subject to the Regulations to place 
a greater emphasis on adopting a risk-based approach towards AML compliance. 
4.3. ICB supervises over 3,000 Members for AML compliance, including ensuring they 
conduct AML risk assessments, implement AML policies and procedures, and 
perform client due diligence. In turn, s ince 17 January 2018 ICB has been 
supervised by OPBAS, which has responsibility under the OPBAS Regulations 2017 
for ensuring that PBSs in the legal and accountancy sectors, including ICB, meet 
the standards of the MLRs 2017 by effectively supervis ing their members ’ 
compliance with the MLRs 2017. 
6 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
     
 
          
     
 
        
         
  
 
           
 
 
          
 
       
 
 
          
           
 
 
         
   
         
  
 
           
  
 
         
         
        
 
 
        
Requirements for PBSs to take a risk-based approach to supervision of 
their members under the MLRs 2017 
4.4. Regulation 17 of the MLRs 2017 requires that PBSs adopt a risk-based approach 
to supervising their members, by (amongst other things): 
(1) carrying out risk assessments to identify and assess the money laundering 
and terrorist financing risks affecting their member population (as required 
by Regulation 17(1)); 
(2) developing and recording in writing risk profiles for the members they 
supervise (as required by Regulation 17(4)). 
(3) reviewing the risk profiles developed under Regulation 17(4) at regular 
intervals and following any significant event or developments which might 
affect the risks to which its own sector is subject (as required by Regulation 
17(8)). 
4.5. The risk assessments carried out and risk profiles developed under Regulation 17 
are not ends in themselves. Under Regulation 46 of the MLRs 2017, PBSs must 
use them to: 
(1) adopt and inform a risk-based approach to the exercise of their supervisory 
functions (as required by Regulation 46(2)(a)), meaning they should target 
supervisory resources on the basis of the risk assessments and member risk 
profiles developed; 
(2) base the frequency and intensity of on -site and off-site supervision on the 
risk profiles (as required by Regulation 46(2)(c) MLRs 2017); and 
(3) take appropriate measures to review the adequacy of the policies, controls 
and procedures adopted by their members and the way in which those 
controls have been implemented (as required by Regulation 46(4)(b) of the 
MLRs 2017). 
Other relevant requirements under Regulation 46 of the MLRs 2017 
7 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
           
     
 
        
     
 
             
            
   
 
        
 
 
             
         
       
   
 
       
    
       
          
            
      
         
        
 
 
       
         
        
       
         
        
         
       
4.6. Other requirements of the MLRs 2017 that are relevant to the supervisory conduct 
of ICB set out in this Notice are that PBSs are required to: 
(1) effectively monitor their members for the purpose of securing compliance 
with the MLRs 2017 (as required by Regulation 46(1)); and 
(2) keep a record in writing of the actions the PBS takes in the course of its 
supervision, and of its reasons for deciding not to act in a particular case (as 
required by Regulation 46(2)(d)). 
ICB’s use of supervisory tools in the period 1 January 2022 to 16 October 
2022 
4.7. In the period 1 January 2022 to 16 October 2022, ICB’s AML supervisory approach 
consisted of using different supervisory tools with the goal of using more intensive 
supervision for Members deemed the highest risk for breaches of the MLRs 2017. 
The principal supervisory tools used by ICB during this period were as follows: 
(1) AML Member Reviews : These involved open -source research, checks of 
Members records on AML Software A (ICB’s AML risk-management software) 
and searches on intelligence databases . They were a lighter -touch 
supervisory tool compared to inspections (see below) because they did not 
involve any interaction with the Member and did not entail a review of AML 
policies and procedures, systems and controls or sample checks on client 
due diligence files. AML Member Reviews were always carried out in advance 
of inspection s and most AML Member Reviews were followed by an 
inspection. 
(2) Onsite inspections and Zoom inspections : These t ook place when AML 
Member Reviews had identified that a Member was likely to be in breach of 
ICBs’ professional conduct rules and/or the MLRs 2017. They were ICB’s 
most in -depth and intensive supervisory tool s because they involved 
reviewing a wide range of AML related documentation provided by the 
Member and interviewing staff about the Members’ AML systems and 
controls. Onsite inspections and Zoom inspections had the same scope and 
requirements and were conducted by the same contract inspectors. Whilst 
8 
   
 
 
 
 
 
        
      
         
  
 
       
   
 
           
          
           
         
        
           
           
         
  
 
           
         
       
            
        
     
 
            
       
            
      
 
 
          
               
         
      
         
           
ICB’s Compliance Team preferred to conduct onsite inspections, they would 
sometimes conduct Zoom inspection s, in special circu mstances. A high 
proportion of onsite and Zoom inspections confirmed breaches of the MLRs 
2017 and enforcement activity was deemed necessary. 
ICB’s approach to selecting Members for supervisory scrutiny in the 
period 1 January 2022 to 16 October 2022 
4.8. For ICB to carry out the risk assessments required by Regulation 17(1) MLRs 
2017, Members were required to answer questions about their clients on ICB’s 
AML Software A . This had been provided to ICB by a third-party software 
company, Software Company Z . An algorithm in AML Software A then used th e 
information provided by Members to produce a risk profile score for each 
Member’s client (either “high risk”, “medium risk” or “low risk”). An overall risk 
profile score for the ICB Member’s practice (as required by Regulation 17(4) MLRs 
2017) was also generated (again these were “high risk” “medium risk” and “low 
risk”). 
4.9. ICB was required to adopt an adequate risk-based approach to the exercise of its 
supervisory functions, which needed to be informed by th e risk assessments and 
the risk-profiles of its Members developed pursuant to Regulation 17 MLRs 2017. 
As part of its supervision strategy , ICB was also required to determine the 
frequency and intensity of its on -site and off -site supervision , using the risk 
profiles it had developed (as stated at paragraph 4.5 (2) above). 
4.10. In the period 1 January 2022 to 16 October 2022, ICB’s Compliance Team had 
limited confidence in the risk profiles for Members generated by AML Software A, 
which meant that in practice they did not use them as a basis for targeting key 
supervisory activities , including inspections . The two key reasons for this were 
that: 
(1) ICB’s Compliance Team was acutely aware that large numbers of Members 
were either not using AML Software A at all, or were failing to keep it up 
to date with the required client information, in breach of ICB’s professional 
conduct rules. Without complete and up-to-date data, it was obvious to 
ICB’s Compliance Team that AML Software A was not generating reliable 
and accurate risk profile scores for Members and it could not therefore be 
9 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
          
    
     
         
         
    
        
          
       
         
         
         
          
         
        
        
         
          
          
 
 
             
        
         
       
          
            
          
   
 
              
           
          
         
used as a reliable tool to target supervisory activity. This was a significant 
issue; 
(2) There was a lack of understanding within ICB of how AML Software A 
generated the risk-ratings for Members. Whilst it was understood that the 
software used an algorithm to generate risk ratings for each ICB Member, 
key staff responsible for compliance matters and for targeting supervisory 
activities did not have a clear and comprehensive understanding of what 
factors were considered in the algorithm and the relative weights given to 
each factor. This was because the algorithm had last been updated several 
years previously by staff who were no longer at ICB and no one within ICB 
could locate a copy of the algorithm, or instructions given to Software 
Company Z, which had designed it . When ICB staff made enquiries with 
Software Company Z in April 2022, they were not provided with the 
requested information, and instead were provided with an iteration of the 
algorithm from 2017, one that had not been in use for many years. When 
a former ICB Compliance staff member was questioned by the Authority at 
interview about the risk -rating algorithms and their attempts to obtain 
copies from the people within ICB they considered would hold the 
information, and from Software Company Z , they stated: “No one knew, 
which rings massive alarm bells. You can’t have a system that you don't 
understand … having no one there to actually understand the mechanics 
of it, to me just doesn’t seem right”. 
4.11. The issues with the reliability of the data used to formulate the risk profiles, 
coupled with the lack of understanding about how the ratings were calculated , 
undermined the usefulness of the risk profiles and risk assessments as a basis for 
targeting supervisory activity. As a result of these issues, the focus of ICB’s 
supervisory activity during this period came to be driven primarily by one risk 
factor: whether or not Members were using or keeping AML Software A up to date. 
This was not an adequate risk-based approach to the exercise of ICB’s supervisory 
functions, as required by Regulation 46(2)(a) and (c) MLRs 2017. 
4.12. The lack of knowledge about what data ICB held and how the AML Software A 
algorithm used that information to calculate risk ratings also resulted in confusion 
internally. For example: although ICB collected information on Members that were 
TCSPs and those that provided payroll services, the information was not easily 
10 
   
 
 
 
 
 
        
          
          
   
 
             
           
          
         
      
           
             
      
           
 
 
          
           
          
       
         
       
           
            
         
          
           
        
          
   
 
           
             
          
           
          
         
       
accessible to those responsible for targeting supervisory activity. This was 
significant because both TCSPs and payroll services were identified by the UK 
National Risk Assessment 2020, published by the Home Office and HM Treasury, 
as high-risk services for money laundering. 
4.13. Due to the lack of understanding on what data was already held by ICB on 
Members acting as TCSPs, ICB issued a TCSP survey to all Members in June 2022 
and in the following months, ICB’s Compliance Team chased for outstanding 
responses. ICB’s Compliance Team also had plans to initiate a similar Payroll 
Survey in late 2022, although this was never issued . However, much of the 
information on TCSPs and Payroll that the Compliance Team was seeking was 
already held on AML Software A, but due to th is lack of understanding and the 
issues identified with the reliability of the data (see paragraphs 4.11 & 4.12), the 
information was not being used during the Relevant Period to target supervisory 
activities. 
4.14. Having gathered additional data on Members engaged in TCSP services via a 
survey that was accessible to the ICB Compliance Team (see paragraph 4.13 
above), around 30 September 2022 ICB’s Compliance Team devised a plan to 
start to factor TCSP survey data into its targeting of supervisory activities, having 
not done so previously. The plan was to prioritise a subset of this high -risk 
category by targeting supervisory activities at Members who had both out-of-date 
data on AML Software A and were also TCSPs. However, this plan was not properly 
implemented because little more than two weeks later , on 17 October 2022, 
inspections (both onsite and Zoom inspections) and AML Member Reviews were 
suspended (as discussed in d etail from paragraphs 4.16 to 4.22). The failure to 
use the TCSP data initially to target supervisory activity was compounded by the 
suspension of these planned supervisory activities and meant that ICB did not 
adopt an adequate risk-based approach to the exercise of its supervisory functions 
during this period, as required by Regulation 46(2)(a). 
4.15. By September 2022, ICB had made progress in respect of a separate workstream, 
which aimed to reduce the number of Members that were not using AML Software 
A at all . However, around 30 September 2022 , just prior to the decision to 
suspend inspections, ICB then identified 1,386 Members that had not updated the 
AML Software A with client information in the previous 12 months (excluding 
Members whose practising licence had expired or been disabled). This equated to 
approximately 45% of the supervised ICB Member population. While a portion of 
11 
   
 
 
 
 
 
        
         
          
           
 
 
   
 
        
      
  
         
       
 
            
       
           
       
           
         
          
           
      
 
           
          
         
       
          
           
          
           
 
 
         
     
          
           
these ICB Members may have not had any clients at all, the remaining ICB 
Members were considered by the ICB Compliance team as ‘high risk’ for breaches 
of the MLRs 2017 and accordingly, in the autumn of 2022, ICB should logically 
have been looking to ramp up its supervisory activity, including its inspection 
activity in response. 
Suspension of Inspections 
4.16. Onsite inspections and Zoom inspections were crucial elements of ICB’s 
supervisory approach because they were ICB’s most intensive supervisory tools 
in terms of their scope and levels of scrutiny. They were particularly important in 
circumstances where ICB knew that there were underlying issues with the data 
on AML Software A, much of which was at that point incomplete or out of date. 
4.17. On 17 October 2022, an ICB director ordered the suspension of all inspections, 
unless already arranged . This decision was made without any consultation with 
members of ICB’s Compliance Team, who were given the impression that the 
suspension would only last for a number of weeks. In fact, inspections remained 
completely suspended for a nine -month period until 26 July 2023. As set out 
above, this suspension decision took place in the context of ICB having recently 
identified that a high proportion of its members were not keeping their client 
information on AML Software A up to date and ICB having recently identified the 
need to target Members providing TSCP services for additional supervision. 
4.18. The suspension of inspections was not confined to onsite inspections , as AML 
Member Reviews and Zoom inspections were also suspended at the same time. 
The AML Compliance Monthly Reports for both November 2022 and December 
2022, show that there were: 0 AML Member Reviews, 0 Zoom inspections and 0 
onsite inspections. In addition, a member of ICB’s Compliance Team wrote in an 
email on 1 November 2022 “Whilst there are no inspections, there is no point in 
completing Member Review's. The member review can become out of date 
reasonably quickly, so would need to be completed again when the inspections 
start again”. 
4.19. Following the suspension of AML Member Reviews, onsite inspections and Zoom 
inspections, ICB’s Compliance Team started compiling a list of members that they 
considered should be put forward for AML Member Reviews and inspections once 
the suspension had been lifted. This meant that during the Suspension Period, 
12 
   
 
 
 
 
 
         
          
        
           
             
        
           
           
 
 
             
         
         
   
 
              
       
       
           
          
  
 
         
         
           
          
   
 
         
    
 
            
          
          
  
 
when ICB had concerns with Members compliance with the MLRs 2017, it did not 
have an appropriate process or strategy to monitor or inspect those Members and 
take necessary measures to ensure their compliance with the MLRs 2017. 
Considering the length of the Suspension Period, this meant that for an extended 
period, ICB failed to adopt an appropriate risk-based approach to the exercise of 
its supervisory functions, as required by Regulation 46(2)(a) of the MLRs 2017. It 
was also a breach of the requirement in Regulation 46(1) of the MLRs 2017 for a 
PBS to effectively monitor its supervised population to secure compliance with the 
MLRs 2017. 
4.20. During the Suspension Period , Member risk profiles were not used to inform the 
frequency and intensity of onsite or indeed offsite supervision , as required by 
Regulation 46(2)(c) of the MLRs 2017 . There was no onsite supervision and the 
Suspension Period continued for nine months. 
4.21. It was also only during inspections that ICB could look at a Member’s policies and 
procedures, which were not otherwise made available to ICB. Therefore, during 
the Suspension Period, ICB was unable to comply with Regulation 46(4)(b), which 
required ICB to take appropriate measures to review the adequacy of the policies, 
controls and procedures adopted by Members and the way in which those policies, 
controls and procedures had been implemented. 
4.22. Although AML Member Reviews had re -commenced by April 2023, inspections 
remained suspended until 26 July 2023, meaning that ICB was still not applying 
more intensive and deeper scrutiny to those Members that ICB considered were 
most at risk of having breached the MLRs. As explained below, there were also no 
credible alternatives to inspections in place during the Suspension Period. 
Reasons alleged by ICB for the suspension of inspections and why they 
do not justify a protracted suspension period 
4.23. The reasons for the suspension of inspections in October 2022 put forward by ICB 
in correspondence with OPBAS and in interviews with the Authority’s Enforcement 
team were inconsistent and did not justify such a protracted suspension period . 
The different reasons are as follows: 
13 
   
 
 
 
 
 
        
        
  
 
            
  
 
        
  
 
          
   
 
             
              
           
        
     
 
          
          
       
            
        
         
  
 
                 
           
            
        
   
 
            
         
  
          
(1) ICB wanted to review the enforcement sanctions policy due to negative 
publicity on social media in March 2022 about ICB enforcement fines being 
unduly harsh and causing Members significant mental distress; 
(2) ICB had concerns about the optics of male ex -police officers acting as 
inspectors and visiting female Members’ homes; 
(3) The Compliance team were apparently not extracting correct information 
from AML Software A; and 
(4) Other PBSs were not conducting as many onsite inspections relative to ICB 
and were instead focusing more on virtual assessments. 
4.24. ICB failed to explain to the Authority a clear causal link between each of the 
factors listed above and the decision to suspend inspections. Even if taken at face 
value, the reasons provided could only have warranted a brief pause in inspections 
to assess urgent changes. However, they cannot credibly justify the nine-month 
Suspension Period that followed the decision in October 2022. 
4.25. In respect of (1) in paragraph 4.23 above , the review of the enforcement 
sanctions policy commenced in April 2022, after negative posts on social media in 
March 2022. Inspections were suspended in mid -October 2022. In light of this 
timing, ICB has failed to explain what changed in October 2022 to warrant the 
suspension of inspections. Further, ICB has not been able to explain why 
inspections could not continue in parallel to a review of the enforcement sanctions 
policy. 
4.26. The reasons at (2) and (4) in paragraph 4.23 above do not justify ICB also ceasing 
Zoom inspections, which it had been conducting throughout the period 1 January 
2022 to 16 October 2022. Instead of increasing Zoom inspections to seek to offset 
the lack of intensive supervision from suspending onsite inspections, ICB also 
suspended them at the same time as onsite inspections. 
4.27. The ICB director who instructed the suspension of inspections was asked at 
interview why ICB did not continue conducting Zoom inspections and replied as 
follows: “I might’ve been frustrated in the meeting and just said, ‘That’s it, we’re 
stopping those’, without considering to identify the difference that they could’ve 
14 
   
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
         
           
        
        
          
  
 
         
         
        
           
  
 
    
 
           
          
       
             
       
          
               
     
 
        
        
         
        
            
   
 
          
      
             
      
carried on with Zoom”. This shows there was no separately considered rationale 
for ceasing Zoom inspections. 
4.28. In respect of (3) in paragraph 4.23 above, two members of ICB’s Compliance 
Team informed the Authority at interview that they were not provided with proper 
training on how to extract data , despite repeatedly requesting such training . In 
any event, issues with data would not justify a protracted Suspension Period but 
instead indicate a need for increased inspections and other data-gathering 
supervisory activity. 
4.29. During the Suspension Period, compliance staff repeatedly escalated their 
concerns about the suspension of inspections and expressed the view that they 
needed to be recommenced as soon as possible. Inspections were universally 
viewed as important within ICB , yet ICB failed to take timely action to 
recommence inspections. 
No credible alternatives to inspections 
4.30. By ceasing inspections, ICB was not taking an appropriate risk-based approach to 
its supervision during the Suspension Period. ICB was not targeting its supervisory 
activities based on risk assessments of Members. It simply ceased inspections for 
nine months (and for a shorter period of approximately six months, it also ceased 
AML Member Reviews / Enhanced Intelligence Reviews) with no contingency 
measures in place. This occurred in circumstances where ICB knew: (a) that there 
were serious issues with the d ata it did hold; and (b) that, despite these issues, 
that data formed the basis of ICB’s risk assessments and risk profiles. 
4.31. ICB has provided numerous sets of data to OPBAS and the Authority’s 
Enforcement team showing that from April 2023, ICB had reco mmenced AML 
Member Reviews ( although their name had been changed to “Enhanced 
Intelligence Reviews”). These were not credible alternatives to inspections 
because they did not have a comparable scope or involve anything like the same 
level of scrutiny as onsite inspections or Zoom inspections. 
4.32. During the Suspension Period, ICB carried out onboarding interviews and 
approvals work, education activities for Members and a remediation project to 
improve the integrity of the data held on Members. Although these activities and 
improvements were welcome, they were not credible alternatives to inspections 
15 
   
 
 
 
 
 
             
    
 
  
      
 
           
         
     
           
        
        
 
 
        
             
         
          
        
       
     
 
         
          
         
         
            
         
  
 
           
          
        
          
         
        
and did not mean that ICB was taking an appropriate risk-based approach to the 
supervision of its Member population during the Relevant Period. 
Failure during the Relevant Period to regularly review risk profiles in 
breach of Regulation 17(8) of the MLRs 2017 
4.33. As explained at paragraph 4.8, ICB’s approach to risk profiling throughout the 
Relevant Period involved requiring Members to provide information about their 
clients on AML Software A by answering questions in respect of each client. AML 
Software A then used an algorithm to create risk ratings for each client of the 
Member, and those ratings were then used as part of the calculation which 
determined the ICB Member’s overall risk profile. These risk ratings would be 
categorised as “low risk”, “medium risk and “high risk”. 
4.34. Given the importance of risk profiling to ICB’s supervisory obligations , it was 
critical that ICB reviewed those risk profiles at regular intervals and following any 
significant event or developments which might affect the risks in ICB’s member 
population, as required by Regulation 17(8) of the MLRs 2017. In order to do that, 
it was necessary to have a detailed understanding of how those risk profiles were 
constructed. That would necessarily involve a full understanding of the inputs into 
the algorithm that was used to calculate the risk score for Members. 
4.35. ICB failed to take steps to regularly review or validate ICB’s risk categories and 
methodology for categorising risk because during the Relevant Period , key staff 
responsible for compliance and targeting supervisory activities did not fully 
understand how the algorithm on AML Software A worked and therefore how 
precisely it calculated Members’ risk profiles. No one at ICB had access to or had 
reviewed the risk rating algorithm for assessing money laundering risks for 
Members to construct member risk profiles. 
4.36. In March 2023, ICB started to take the view that larger Members by client number 
should be subject to additional scrutiny due to complaints and concerns about two 
large members. Once inspections were re-commenced on 26 July 2023, they were 
targeted at the larger Members . However, no updates were made to the AML 
Software A algorithm to reflect this heightened concern about large Members or 
to adjust the corresponding risk profiles . This demonstrates that ICB was not 
16 
   
 
 
 
 
 
        
  
 
        
      
      
 
         
               
       
         
          
  
 
          
         
         
     
      
 
         
           
       
         
  
 
          
    
 
   
  
         
             
          
      
 
 
regularly reviewing the inputs into the algorithm following a significant event or 
development which might affect the risks to which its own sector is subject. 
Failure to keep a record in writing of the actions it has taken in the course 
of its supervision, and of its reasons for deciding not to act in a particular 
case, as required by Regulation 46(2)(d) of the MLRs 2017 
4.37. A key purpose of the record keeping required by Regulation 46(2)(d) of the MLRs 
2017 is to ensure that a PBS is able to demonstrate why it took decisions in the 
exercise of its supervisory functions . This requires that it record the reasons for 
its decisions and that the records should be sufficiently thorough to show how and 
why decisions were made. Despite this Requirement, ICB has poor records of its 
supervisory activities and key supervisory decisions across the Relevant Period. 
4.38. In particular, ICB has an absence of supporting documentation relating to the 
decision to suspend onsite and Zoom inspections from October 2022 , with no 
written record setting out a reasoned explanation for the suspension of 
inspections. This was despite the broad consensus within ICB that inspections 
were a critically important element of ICB’s risk-based approach to supervision. 
4.39. ICB’s poor record-keeping in respect of its supervisory activities across the 
Relevant Period led to ICB providing different sets of data to both OPBAS and the 
Authority’s Enforcement team. These had significant discrepancies and also differ 
from ICB’s published AML Supervision Annual Report for 6 April 2022 to 5 April 
2023. 
4.40. More generally, various emails identified in the investigation also make explicit 
references to a lack of clear record keeping at ICB during the Relevant Period. 
ICB Engagement and Improvement 
4.41. ICB has engaged constructively with OPBAS since the issues identified in this 
Notice came to light and has worked to address the concerns set out in this public 
censure. ICB has also continued to actively participate in AML supervisor industry 
events and forums , demonstrating a willingness to learn from past failings and 
contribute to broader regulatory discussions. 
17 
   
 
 
 
 
 
     
           
  
 
  
 
   
 
       
 
       
 
 
   
     
        
   
 
           
         
   
 
       
  
 
      
 
              
      
   
 
           
     
          
  
 
  
 
4.42. Since the end of the Relevant Period of this Notice, ICB has provided evidence to 
the Authority that shows it has significantly improved its staff’s understanding of 
how the algorithm used by AML Software A generates risk profiles for Members. 
5. FAILINGS 
5.1. The regulatory provisions relevant to this Notice are referred to in Annex A. 
5.2. Between 1 January 2022 and 26 July 2023 (“the Relevant Period”), ICB: 
5.2.1. did not effectively monitor its members, as required by regulation 
46(1) MLRs 2017; 
5.2.2. did not adopt an adequate risk-based approach to the exercise of its 
supervisory functions, which needed to be informed by risk 
assessments carried out under Regulation 17 MLRs 2017, as required 
by Regulation 46(2)(a) MLRs 2017; 
5.2.3. failed to base the frequency and intensity of its onsite and off -site 
supervision on the risk profiles prepared under Regulation 17(4), as 
required by Regulation 46(2)(c); and 
5.2.4. failed to regularly review Members’ risk profiles as required by 
Regulation 17(8) MLRs 2017. 
5.3. Between 17 October 2022 and 26 July 2023 (“the Suspension Period”), ICB: 
5.3.1. failed to keep a record in writing of the actions it ha d taken in the 
course of its supervision, and of its reasons for deciding not to act in 
a particular case, in breach of Regulation 46(2)(d); and 
5.3.2. failed to take appropriate measures to review the adequacy of the 
policies, controls and procedures adopted by relevant persons and 
the way in which those controls had been implemented, as required 
by Regulation 46(4)(b) MLRs 2017. 
6. SANCTION 
18 
   
 
 
 
 
 
           
         
 
 
             
          
         
        
  
 
          
      
        
     
 
 
      
         
         
   
 
   
 
     
    
 
      
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
          
       
             
6.1. The Authority has considered the disciplinary and other options available to it an d 
has concluded that a public censure is the appropriate sanction in the circumstances 
of this case. 
6.2. The outcomes available under the OPBAS Regulations 16 and 17 are that the 
Authority may publish a statement censuring the PBS (Regulation 16) and/or it may 
recommend to the Treasury that a PBS is removed from Schedule 1 of the MLRs 
2017 (Regulation 17). The Authority does not have powers under the OPBAS 
Regulations 2017 to impose a financial penalty on a PBS. 
6.3. The principal purpose of issuing a public censure is to promote high standards of 
regulatory conduct by deterring persons who have committed breaches from 
committing further breaches and helping to deter other persons from committing 
similar breaches, as w ell as demonstrating generally the benefits of compliant 
behaviour. 
6.4. The Authority considers that ICB’s breaches of certain provisions of the MLRs 2017 
are serious failings and that a public censure should be imposed to demonstrate to 
ICB and other PBSs the seriousness with which the Authority regards the failings 
set out above. 
7. PROCEDURAL MATTERS 
7.1. This Notice is given to ICB under Regulation 20(2) of the OPBAS Regulations 
2017 in accordance with section 390 of the Act. 
7.2. The following statutory rights are important. 
Decision maker 
7.3. The decision which gave rise to the obligation to give this Notice was made by 
the Settlement Decision Makers. 
Publicity 
7.4. Regulation 21 (3) of the OPBAS Regulations 2017 provides that where the 
Authority gives a Decision Notice relating to public censure , it must publish 
information on the type and nature of the breach, and on the identity of the PBS 
19 
   
 
 
 
 
 
             
    
 
          
 
       
  
 
 
 
         
      
  
 
  
 
   
     
 
 
  
on whom the measure is imposed, together with such other information about the 
matter to which a Decision Notice relates as it considers appropriate. 
7.5. Pursuant to Regulation 20(2) of the OPBAS Regulations 2017, section 390 (final 
notices) of FSMA applies to a decision notice given under Regulation 19(4) of the 
OBPAS Regulations 2017 in relation to public censure. This Final Notice constitutes 
the statement of public censure. 
Authority contacts 
7.6. For more information concerning this matter generally, cont act Sam Nason 
(email: sam.nason@fca.org.uk) or Rory Neary at the Authority (email: 
rory.neary2@fca.org.uk). 
Lisa Ablett 
Acting Head of Department 
Financial Conduct Authority, Enforcement and Market Oversight Division 
20 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
    
 
     
 
          
          
 
 
  
       
 
              
          
        
 
 
       
    
       
           
 
 
         
     
 
           
  
 
            
  
   
 
            
  
 
ANNEX A 
RELEVANT STATUTORY AND REGULATORY PROVISIONS 
1. RELEVANT STATUTORY PROVISIONS 
The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (“the Act”) 
1.1. The Authority’s statutory objectives, set out in section 1B(3) of the Act, include 
protecting and enhancing the integrity of the UK financial system (section 1D of 
the Act). 
The Oversight of Professional Body Anti -Money Laundering and Counter 
Terrorist Financing Supervision Regulations 2017 (the OPBAS Regs 2017) 
1.2. Regulation 16(1) of the OPBAS Reg s 2017 states that if the Authority considers 
that a self -regulatory organisation has failed to comply with a supervision 
requirement, the Authority may may publish a statement censuring the self -
regulatory organisation. 
1.3. Regulation 16(3) states that the Authority must not censure a self -regulatory 
organisation under Regulation 16 for failure to comply with a requirement listed in 
Regulation 16(1) if the Authority is satisfied that the self -regulatory organisation 
took all reasonable steps and exercised all due diligence to ensure that such a 
requirement would be complied with. 
Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and Transfer of Funds (Information 
on the Payer) Regulations 2017 (“the MLRs 2017”) 
1.4. Regulation 17 of the MLRs 2017 sets out to ensure that PBSs adopt a risk -based 
approach to supervising their members. 
1.5. Regulation 17(1) requires each PBS to identify and assess the international and 
domestic risks of money laundering and terrorist financing to which those relevant 
persons for which it is the supervisory authority (“its own sector”) are subject. 
1.6. Regulation 17(4) requires each PBS to develop and record in writing risk profiles 
for each member they supervise. 
21 
   
 
 
 
 
 
             
          
      
 
         
  
   
      
 
     
     
            
           
 
 
          
     
  
 
         
           
 
 
           
            
  
 
            
          
            
 
 
    
 
1.7. Regulation 17(8) requires each PBS to review the risk profiles developed under 
Regulation 17 (4) at regular intervals and following any significant event or 
developments which might affect the risks to which its own sector is subject, such 
as: 
(a) significant external events that change the nature of the money 
laundering or terrorist financing risks; 
(b) emerging money laundering or terrorist financing risks; 
(c) any findings resulting from measures taken by other supervisory 
authorities; 
(d) any changes in the way in which its own sector is operated; 
(e) significant changes in regulation. 
1.8. Regulation 46(1) requires a PBS to effectively monitor the relevant persons for 
which it is the supervisory authority for the purpose of securing compliance with 
the MLRs 2017. 
1.9. Regulation 46(2)(a) requires each PBS to adopt and inform a risk-based approach 
to the exercise of their supervisory functions, informed by the risk assessments it 
carried out under regulation 17. 
1.10. Regulation 46(2)(c) MLRs 2017 requires each PBS to base the frequency and 
intensity of its on-site and off-site supervision on the risk profiles prepared under 
regulation 17(4). 
1.11. Regulation 46(2)(d) requires each PBS to keep a record in writing of the actions it 
has taken in the course of its supervision, and of its reasons for deciding not to act 
in a particular case. 
1.12. Regulation 46(4)(b) requires each PBS, in accordance with its risk-based approach, 
to take appropriate measures to review the adequacy of the policies, controls and 
procedures adopted by relevant persons under regulation 19 to 21 and 24, and the 
way in which those policies, controls and procedures have been implemented. 
2. RELEVANT GUIDANCE 
22 
   
 
 
 
 
 
          
 
 
              
   
2.1. The Enforcement Guide sets out the Authority’s approach to exercising its main 
enforcement powers. 
2.2. The OPBAS Sourcebook sets out guidance to PBSs on how to comply with their 
obligations under the MLRs 2017. 
23 
