 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
         
     
 
       
  
 
  
 
                  
 
 
 
 
  
 
       
       
       
               
         
     
 
 
    
 
             
         
FINAL NOTICE 
To: Nationwide Building Society 
Firm Reference Number: 106078 
Address: Nationwide House 
Pipers Way 
Swindon 
SN38 1NW 
Date: 11 December 2025 
1. ACTION 
1.1 For the reasons given in this Final Notice, the Authority hereby imposes on 
Nationwide Building Society ("Nationwide" or “the Firm”) a financial penalty of 
£44,078,500 pursuant to section 206 of the Act. 
1.2 Nationwide has agreed to resolve this matter and qualified for a 30% (stage 1) 
discount under the Authority's executive settlement procedures. Were it not for this 
discount, the Authority would have imposed a financial penalty of £62,969,297 on 
Nationwide. 
2. SUMMARY OF REASONS 
2.1 The Authority has the operational objective of protecting and enhancing the integrity 
of the UK financial system. The laundering of money through UK financial institutions 
1 
 
 
          
 
        
     
               
          
  
  
            
 
    
          
            
   
              
       
 
           
       
  
   
           
          
           
           
          
         
   
           
   
 
 
    
        
           
        
  
             
         
 
  
             
  
 
             
        
          
 
 
 
 
undermines the integrity of the UK financial system. Under the Authority’s rules, 
financial institutions operating in the UK are responsible for minimising the risk of 
being used for criminal purposes, including the risk of being used to facilitate money 
laundering or terrorist financing. 
2.2 To mitigate this risk (and as part of their obligation to take reasonable care to 
organise and control their affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems), firms must establish and maintain an adequate risk -based 
anti-money la undering (“AML”) control framework which is comprehensive and 
proportionate to the nature, scale and complexity of the firm’s activities. 
2.3 Such a framework must include measures to establish the identity of its customers 
accurately at the start of the relationship and gather other customer information 
(collectively known as “CDD”) which will enable the firm to understand the purpose 
and nature of the customer’s intended relationship so that the firm can assess the 
money laundering risks presented by the customer. Where those risks are high, the 
firm must carry out enhanced due diligence (“EDD”). 
2.4 Thereafter, the firm must monitor the activities of the customer, including monitoring 
transactions to ensure that they remain consistent with the firm’s understanding of 
the customer and the associated money laundering risks. As part of this, the firm 
must keep information held on customers up -to-date and apply CDD (and where 
appropriate EDD) measures where it doubts the truth or adequacy of previously 
obtained documents, data or information. The extent and frequency of the 
monitoring in respect of each customer will depend on the particular risks they 
present. Where the risk associated with the customer relationship is high, enhanced 
ongoing monitoring of the relationship must be undertaken. Where a firm identifies 
that a customer’s activities are not consistent with its understanding of the customer, 
or that the customer may be engaged in suspicious activity, it must take prompt 
action to investigate this, and where appropriate submit a suspicious activity report 
(“SAR”) to the National Crime Agency (“NCA” ) and manage any money laundering 
risks. 
2.5 Retail banking is a cornerstone of the UK’s economy and includes the provision of 
standard current account, loan and savings products to personal and business 
customers by banks and building societies. There is an elevated risk of financial crime 
in the re tail banking sector because of transaction volumes, simple onboarding 
processes and its mass market nature. Moreover, criminals often seek to integrate 
illicit funds into the sector in order that they can spend, store and use these monies. 
Additional AML steps are required in respect of SME banking customers. 
Nationwide 
2.6 Nationwide is the world’s largest building society. By 1 July 2021 it had approximately 
18 million UK customers and £170 billion in customer deposits across its products. 
It held a 10% market share of UK current accounts, which had grown significantly 
over the previous 4½ years from approximately 7%. Therefore, it was essential that 
Nationwide’s financial crime prevention systems and controls were effective and 
tailored to the risks presented by its operations and customers. 
2 
 
 
      
 
      
  
           
 
      
       
        
        
           
           
          
         
   
        
  
  
             
           
         
 
 
      
           
          
           
        
          
          
        
 
       
          
       
 
           
            
   
           
     
          
        
  
        
           
   
         
  
     
 
        
        
Deficiencies in Nationwide’s AML monitoring systems and controls 
2.7 Between 1 October 2016 and 1 July 2021 (“the Relevant Period”) there were 
deficiencies in Nationwide’s AML systems and controls which had a material impact 
on its ability to monitor effectively its customer relationships. In particular: 
(a) It did not have effective systems for refreshing CDD and conducting 
customer risk assessments. At the start of the Relevant Period, Nationwide’s 
system for individually risk assessing customers was an unsophisticated, 
interim solution. Unless the customer fell into certain limited categories (one 
of which was if Nationwide’s systems flagged that they had been charged or 
convicted of a financial crime), they were automatically classed as standard 
risk. Before the Relevant Period, Nationwide had commenced its RRP project 
which was intended to introduce a system which would automatically assess 
the financial crime risk presented by customers and in the interim added 
further risk assessment triggers. Likewise, measures to gather enhanced 
CDD were introduced. However, the RRP system was not fully operational 
until early 2019 and it was not until August 2020 that the additional data 
items (a number of which were pertinent to the Firm’s obligations under the 
MLRs) were fed into Nationwide’s RRP system, and not until April 2021 that 
the enhanced data was considered for customer risk scoring purposes. 
Further, the measures introduced by Nationwide to gather enhanced CDD 
applied only to brand new customers and existing customers seeking new 
products, representing only a small percentage of customers. As at the end 
of the Relevant Period, Nationwide continued to hold concerns about gaps in 
CDD for existing customers, which were significant in some cases, including 
in relation to retrievable verification evidence. These gaps meant that it was 
not always possible to complete a customer risk assessment fully. It was not 
therefore possible for Nationwide to be confident that all high risk customers 
had been identified . Notwithstanding improvements made during the 
Relevant Period, the deficiencies in Nationwide’s customer risk assessment 
architecture (in particular until August 2020) had a potentially material 
impact on its ability to monitor customer relationships effectively and within 
the risk appetite approved by Nationwide’s board. 
(b) Aside from customers already assessed as high risk (which in mid- 2020 
appears to have amounted to only some 2,000 customers), and (for the 
majority of the Relevant Period) in breach of its own policies, Nationwide 
had no process for undertaking either periodic or event -driven reviews of a 
substantial proportion of its customer relationships. The absence of these 
controls throughout the Relevant Period prolonged the time it would take for 
existing customer relationships to be reviewed and their CDD refreshed , so 
compromising Nationwide’s ongoing understanding of its customers, 
particularly its existing customers who had been onboarded prior to previous 
uplifts in CDD measures, had not opened new accounts since, and were 
classified as standard or low risk befo re the introduction of RRP (which, as 
above, represented a substantial proportion of its customer base). 
(c) The deficiencies in Nationwide’s risk assessment and CDD procedures 
impacted on its transaction monitoring system as a means by which 
inconsistent or unusual customer behaviour could be detected, investigated 
and addressed on a risk-orientated basis. However, Nationwide’s system for 
3 
 
 
   
             
             
   
    
          
  
         
          
  
    
   
   
          
 
 
           
  
       
            
          
   
             
            
          
            
       
    
        
 
    
            
    
 
             
         
          
            
 
 
               
           
     
         
          
              
      
         
 
      
   
  
           
monitoring customer transactions for unusual activity was inadequate and 
ineffective. In February 2017 an internal report noted that a recent FCA final 
notice against a major bank had highlighted the need for an effective, tuned 
and auditable transaction monitoring solution which took into account the 
CDD captured from customers. It referred to a 2016 internal review of the 
system which concluded at the time it was compliant with legal requirements 
but that there were weaknesses relating to data integrity, governance and 
understanding of rule amendments and design. Nationwide undertook work 
in response and engaged compliance consultants to assist in developing the 
system including from 2019, to outline key improvements required and a 
multi-year ‘roadmap’ to deliver them. This placed Nationwide’s transaction 
monitoring maturity at stage two out of five (as compared with 
amalgamated peers, which were placed at four - a stage it was assessed 
Nationwide would not reach until 2021). Other than for high risk customers, 
Nationwide’s existing transaction monitoring rules applied uniformly across 
its entire personal account customer base and a customer’s individual 
circumstances (such as the CDD gathered) would only be taken into account 
if a rule triggered. The review also suggested that Nationwide needed to 
introduce peer-based and additional behavioural rules. A review in 2020 of 
the planned new rules described the existing rules as narrow in focus, 
limiting Nationwide's ability to cover the full range of money laundering risks 
to which it was exposed. The review recommended consideration be given 
to daily or weekly (as opposed to monthly) application of the rules to align 
with the general direction of travel in the industry. Concerns that alert 
thresholds for the pre-existing rules were set very high were also expressed 
by a senior member of Nationwide’s financial crime function in 2020. By the 
end of the Relevant Period, although improved through a significant 
programme of work, the system still only provided partial coverage of the 
money laundering typology risks which Nationwide faced. 
2.8 The Authority considers that these weaknesses significantly impacted Nationwide’s 
ability effectively to maintain an up- to-date understanding and records of all its 
current account customers and to monitor these customer relationships on an 
appropriate ris k-sensitive basis, including scrutinising customer transactions to 
ensure that they were consistent with what Nationwide knew about the customer. In 
combination, this created material risks over a protracted period that unusual activity 
by customers might remain undetected and/or that customers moving into the ‘high 
risk’ category over the course of their relationship might not be identified and actively 
managed. 
2.9 This created a particularly high risk in respect of any of its customers who were using 
their personal current accounts for business activity in breach of Nationwide’s terms 
and conditions. Unlike most large retail high street banks, Nationwide did not offer 
business banking current accounts for SMEs at any time during the Relevant Period. 
The financial crime risk profile of SME banking customers is different from, and 
potentially higher than, that of personal customers due to factors such as the greater 
complexity involved in identifying corporate customers and monitoring their 
transactional behaviour, and the size and number of the transactions. These and 
other factors mean that firms ordinarily apply charges for business bank accounts. 
As a result of thes e charges (and on occasions other factors - such as challenges 
faced by businesses operating in certain sectors in obtaining access to bank 
accounts), firms may identify customers seeking to use personal current accounts 
for business activity in breach of its terms and conditions. Whether to tolerate such 
4 
 
 
    
            
      
 
         
       
 
       
       
    
   
   
   
   
 
   
         
          
         
   
           
     
 
  
        
         
      
 
  
     
           
            
            
      
         
            
     
  
 
            
     
 
            
           
  
            
        
     
     
          
     
use is a matter for the firm to decide. However, a firm must continue to meet its 
legal and regulatory obligations, including its obligations to counter the risk that an 
account might be used to further financial crime. 
2.10 Nationwide’s financial crime prevention controls for personal current accounts were 
not set up for business use. In particular: 
(a) Nationwide’s CDD measures were not calibrated to capture business 
characteristics and this meant that Nationwide did not capture sufficient data 
on businesses (and in the event of the business being a legal entity other 
than the customer, their beneficial owners) to enable proper risk 
assessment, identification of customers operating in an indu stry or 
geographical area outside of Nationwide’s risk appetite, and (if applicable) 
EDD. 
(b) Transaction monitoring systems were not designed to identify unusual 
and/or suspicious behaviours pertinent to businesses. Nor could they be 
because the Firm had not gathered the necessary information from 
businesses on their activities and expected account usage to establish what 
comprised normal and unusual behaviour. There was a risk that when 
business use did occur on accounts it would become normalised or generate 
false transaction monitoring alerts for review. 
(c) Training and processes did not include sufficient guidance on how to 
investigate accounts with potential business use. It was accordingly 
recognised that unusual/suspicious activity could remain undetected and not 
reported when appropriate to the NCA. 
2.11 Allowing accounts designed for personal use to be used for business, without 
effective mitigating controls, exacerbated the existing AML monitoring weaknesses 
and created further risks across the customer lifecycle. These risks were in the 
Authority’s view material and created a consequential risk that unusual or suspicious 
business activity could remain undetected and not reported to the NCA. 
2.12 Prior records are not now available but various staff at Nationwide appear to have 
recognised from at least October 2016 the financial crime risks of “ unauthorised 
business use” of its personal current accounts. In particular it was recognised that 
(a) There could be increased external scrutiny and the risk of regulatory 
censure; and 
(b) The Firm was exposed to the risk of being used to further money laundering 
and potentially committing criminal offences under the MLRs. 
2.13 From October 2016 to September 2017 the Firm’s staff carried out some initial work 
to assess the number of accounts subject to unauthorised business use and to 
develop an outline process for investigating and (where appropriate) closing those 
accounts. In September 2017 a decision was taken to temporarily tolerate the risks 
on the basis that Nationwide was planning to launch its own SME business banking 
product to which personal current accounts being used for business purposes could 
be migrated. Over a per iod of approximately two and a half years, the toleration 
decision was revisited but remained in place. In the Authority’s view, that was 
inappropriate. Nationwide’s financial crime prevention controls for personal current 
5 
 
 
             
  
                
       
   
          
         
   
   
       
  
             
     
         
  
  
    
          
      
        
 
 
   
           
            
  
 
  
   
    
 
          
  
 
  
            
  
      
 
          
            
     
          
           
  
           
           
              
             
              
            
accounts were not set up for business use. It had no settled methodology for 
calculating the number of personal current accounts subject to unauthorised use, 
and no framework for dealing with them. Its controls for maintaining an up to date 
understanding of, and monitoring, its personal current account customers were not 
operating effectively. Whilst some work continued in the interim to understand and 
address the business use risks, insufficient mitigation measures were implemented. 
It was not until aroun d April 2020, when the planned business banking product 
launch was discontinued, that impactful steps were then taken to develop a model 
to identify business use and create a formal written framework for defining, 
investigating, managing and, if appropriate, exiting unauthorised business 
customers. 
2.14 Nationwide was also aware during the Relevant Period of the wider monitoring 
weaknesses  described above (see paragraph 2.7) and progressed or implemented 
a number of workstreams aimed at remediating or uplifting these matters, including 
through an ongoing project aimed at ensuring compliance with the MLRs 2017 (in 
force from 26 June 2017). However, these workstreams did not address the 
weaknesses in a sufficiently effective or timely manner and from 2020 Nationwide 
instructed a firm of compliance consultants to undertake a more comprehensive 
analysis of the effectiveness of its financial crime prevention framework and make 
recommendations on a target operating model. This produced a greater 
understanding of the wo rk required to address weaknesses in the framework and 
resulted in the firm commencing from around June 2021, a more comprehensive 
financial crime transformation programme. 
2.15 The failure by Nationwide to identify and/or address these various weaknesses across 
its AML monitoring systems and controls in a timely manner impacted in some cases 
its entire personal current account population (with an increased impact in respect 
of customers using their personal current account s for business activity). In turn, 
this led to an unacceptable risk that inconsistent or unusual activity by customers 
might remain undetected and unaddressed. The Authority considers these 
deficiencies over a four -and-half year period comprised a breach by Nationwide of 
its obligation under Principle 3 to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems. 
2.16 During the COVID-19 pandemic the government implemented the Coronavirus Job 
Retention Scheme (“JRS”), a temporary scheme announced on 20 March 2020 and 
designed to protect the UK economy by helping employers whose operations were 
affected by coronavirus to retain their employees. Receipt of JRS funds into a 
personal current account is a strong indicator of business use. In total 33,678 JRS 
payments totalling £64.6m were paid into 5,191 personal accounts at Nationwide. 
2.17 In one egregious case, Nationwide missed opportunities to identify unusual activity 
on the part of one of Nationwide’s customers, Customer A, who fraudulently claimed 
and received from HMRC into their Nationwide accounts 24 JRS furlough payments 
totalling £1.35m over the course of 13 months and then £26.01m over 8 days 
between 2020 and 2021. The Authority considers that those monies represented the 
proceeds of crime and that Customer A used their account to launder those funds . 
Transaction monitoring alerts were generated at the beginning of a month, based on 
retrospective transactional activity in the previous month. Accordingly, an alert was 
only issued in respect of the last four JRS deposits into Customer A’s accounts (each 
of which were in excess of £6m) at the beginning of the ensuing month. Nationwide’s 
procedures then allowed up to 20 working days for alerts to be investigated. In the 
event, HMRC identified the fraud before the month end and obtained account freezing 
6 
 
 
          
             
     
  
     
 
        
    
         
  
          
           
 
                
 
 
  
 
        
        
    
            
        
         
      
         
     
          
          
  
 
   
           
     
   
               
 
          
           
            
          
 
and forfeiture orders. However, during the 2020-2021 period in excess of £800,000 
had already been transferred out of the accounts and was never recovered. The 
Authority considers that the Firm’s systems and controls should have prompted a 
review of the unusual activities and consideration of the associated financial crime 
risks from at least late 2019. 
2.18 The Authority therefore hereby imposes on Nationwide a financial penalty of 
£44,078,500 for its breach of Principle 3, and associated breaches of SYSC rules 
6.1.1R and 6.3.1R pursuant to section 206 of the Act. 
2.19 Nationwide has invested significantly in remedial steps and enhancing its financial 
crime framework since the end of the Relevant Period. 
2.20 Nationwide has cooperated fully with the Authority throughout the course of its 
investigation. 
2.21 For the avoidance of doubt, this Notice makes no criticism of any person other than 
Nationwide. 
3. DEFINITIONS 
3.1 The definitions below are used in this Notice: 
“the Act” means the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000; 
“AML” means anti-money laundering; 
“the Authority” means the body corporate previously known as the Financial Services 
Authority and renamed on 1 April 2013 as the Financial Conduct Authority; 
“the Banking Proposition Board” means Nationwide’s body tasked with, amongst 
other matters, facilitating collective discussion and making recommendations to 
appropriate governance forums relating to Nationwide's end-to-end management of 
the banking, insurance and investment proposition; 
“BACS payment” means Bankers' Automated Clearing System which is an electronic 
payment system used in the UK for transferring money between bank accounts; 
“BBM” means a browser -based message used by Nationwide to communicate with 
its customers; 
“the Conduct and Compliance Committee” means a sub- committee of Nationwide’s 
executive risk committee and board risk committee, tasked with, amongst other 
matters, oversight of conduct and compliance matters; 
“CDD” means customer due diligence, the measures a firm must take to establish 
and verify the identity of its customers and the purpose and intended nature of the 
business relationship; 
“Customer A” means a banking customer of Nationwide between 2014 and 2021; 
“DEPP” means the Decision Procedure and Penalties Manual, part of the Handbook; 
“EDD” means enhanced customer due diligence, the measures a firm must apply in 
certain circumstances, including where the customer presents a higher risk of money 
laundering; 
7 
 
 
          
       
    
           
        
       
          
    
       
       
     
       
 
          
             
            
 
    
        
  
  
  
          
 
    
             
  
    
             
      
          
         
     
              
         
      
       
        
       
            
“the Financial Crime Risk Forum” means a forum of Nationwide tasked with, amongst 
other matters, oversight of financial crime risks; 
“FCTP” means Nationwide's large-scale financial crime transformation remediation 
programme which formally concluded in June 2024, designed to make significant and 
lasting enhancements to the financial crime control environment; 
“FlexBasic” – the Firm’s basic current account product; 
“the Handbook” means the Authority’s Handbook of rules and guidance; 
“HMRC” means His Majesty’s Revenue & Customs; 
“ID&V means identification and verification, the process of identifying, and verifying 
the identity of, a customer or potential customer; 
“Internal Audit” means a function of Nationwide tasked with providing independent 
assurance to its board and executive committee; 
“JMLSG” means the Joint Money Laundering Steering Group, a private sector body 
made up of the leading UK trade associations in the financial services industry; 
“JMLSG Guidance” means the guidance issued by the JMLSG and approved by a 
Treasury Minister on compliance with the legal requirements in the 2007 Regulations, 
regulatory requirements in the Authority’s Handbook and evolving practice within 
the financial se rvices industry. The JMLSG Guidance sets out good practice for the 
UK financial services sector on the prevention of money laundering and combatting 
terrorist financing; 
“JRS” means the Coronavirus Job Retention Scheme a temporary UK government 
scheme announced on 20 March 2020 and designed to protect the UK economy by 
helping employers whose operations were affected by coronavirus to retain their 
employees; 
“KYC” means know your customer; 
“Money Laundering” means the process by which the proceeds of crime are converted 
into assets which appear to have a legitimate origin, so that they can be retained 
permanently or recycled into further criminal enterprises; 
“MSB” means a money service business which is a business that deals with currency 
exchange, money transmission, or cheque cashing; 
“MLRs” means the Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and Transfer of Funds 
(Information on the Payer) Regulations 2007 or 2017, as applicable; 
“MLRO” means the Money Laundering Reporting Officer, an individual with 
responsibility for oversight of a firm’s AML systems and controls whose role is to act 
as the focal point for all AML activity within the firm; 
“Nationwide” or “the Firm means Nationwide Building Society; 
“the NCA” means the National Crime Agency; 
“POCA” means the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002; 
“PSCs” means persons of significant control; 
“the Relevant Period” means the period 1 October 2016 to 1 July 2021; 
8 
 
 
   
 
               
             
           
           
   
    
    
          
 
     
  
 
   
 
              
 
     
 
           
    
 
  
 
   
         
 
                
  
 
              
    
           
 
   
    
       
           
        
  
              
 
     
 
             
           
          
 
“Principles” means the Authority’s Principles for Businesses as set out in the 
Handbook; 
“SAR” means Suspicious Activity Report, a report which a firm is obliged to make to 
the NCA under Part 7 of POCA when it knows or suspects, or has reasonable grounds 
for knowing or suspecting, that a person has engaged in money laundering; 
“SME” means a small and medium- sized enterprise, a term widely used to describe 
smaller businesses; 
“SYSC” means the section of the Handbook entitled “Senior Management 
Arrangements, Systems and Controls”; and 
“the Tribunal” means the Upper Tribunal (Tax and Chancery Chamber). 
4. FACTS AND MATTERS 
Background 
Nationwide Building Society 
4.1 Nationwide is an authorised firm that is regulated by the Authority and the PRA. It is 
the world’s largest building society, is owned by over 16 million members and is a 
household name in the United Kingdom. 
4.2 Nationwide offers retail banking products including mortgages, savings accounts and 
current accounts. Nationwide's banking business was, during the Relevant Period, 
predominantly focused on, and known for, its personal banking products and 
services. 
4.3 By the end of the Relevant Period, Nationwide had approximately 18 million 
customers and approximately £170 billion in customer deposits across its products. 
It held a 10% market share of UK current accounts, which had grown significantly 
over the course of the Relevant Period from around 7% at the start of the Relevant 
Period. 
4.4 Nationwide did not provide, at any stage during the Relevant Period, business current 
account products for its customers. The only business products offered by the Firm 
were three business savings account products – instant, notice and fixed term. 
Retail Banking and financial crime risks 
4.5 Retail banking is a cornerstone of the UK’s economy and includes the provision of 
standard current account, loan and savings products to personal and business 
customers by banks and building societies. There is an elevated risk of financial crime 
in the re tail banking sector because of transaction volumes, simple onboarding 
processes and its mass market nature. Moreover, criminals often seek to integrate 
illicit funds into the sector in order that they can spend, store and use these monies. 
Relevant legal and regulatory obligations 
4.6 All authorised firms are required by the Authority’s rules to maintain adequate 
policies and procedures sufficient for countering the risk that the firm might be used 
to further financial crime, including money laundering. These must include systems 
and co ntrols which enable it to identify, assess, monitor and manage money 
9 
 
 
       
             
             
           
   
      
 
              
           
           
          
            
    
          
           
 
      
 
             
          
           
 
     
 
   
        
            
  
     
 
    
            
      
             
 
         
              
 
    
 
             
  
           
            
           
          
             
 
  
 
   
          
  
laundering risk and which are comprehensive and proportionate to the nature, scale 
and complexity of the firm’s activities. Firms must carry out a regular assessment of 
the adequacy of these systems and controls to ensure that they continue to be 
effective. These obligations are set out in the Authority’s Handbook and, during the 
Relevant Period, the MLRs which were supported by the JMLSG Guidance together 
with statements from the Authority. 
4.7 The MLRs, as supported by the JMLSG guidance, required that firms undertake CDD 
to identify customers (including prospective customers), to verify their identities and 
gather information which would enable the firm to understand the purpose and 
nature of the customer’s intended relationship. This includes where it doubts the 
truth or adequacy of previously obtained documents, data or information. Where the 
customer is a business, a firm must gather ad ditional specified information to 
understand the business and its beneficial owners. Collectively, this information 
should be sufficient for the firm to obtain a comprehensive picture of who its 
customers are, and the risk associated with its customer relationships to provide a 
meaningful basis for subsequent monitoring. 
4.8 Where the inherent risk associated with a customer relationship is increased, a firm 
must apply appropriate and risk-based EDD measures to manage and mitigate that 
heightened risk. This includes enhanced ongoing monitoring of the relationship. 
4.9 Separately, a firm must carry out ongoing monitoring of its customer relationships 
on a risk-sensitive basis. This includes scrutinising transactions to ensure that they 
are consistent with what the firm knows about the customer and taking steps to 
ensure that the firm’s knowledge remains current. To facilitate effective transaction 
monitoring, firms must keep documents, data and information obtained in the CDD 
context (including information about the purpose and intended nature of the 
customer relationship) up to date. 
4.10 Firms’ transaction monitoring systems may vary considerably in their approach to 
detecting and reporting unusual or suspicious activity. Nevertheless, as is clear from 
prevailing regulatory guidance on the MLRs, the efficacy of such systems depends 
upon the quality of the parameters and thresholds which underpin them. 
4.11 Relevant extracts from the Authority’s Handbook, relevant statutory and regulatory 
provisions as well as the JMLSG Guidance are set out in Annex A to this Notice. 
The Authority’s 2015 supervisory review 
4.12 In March 2015 (i.e. prior to the Relevant Period), the Authority’s financial crime 
supervision team reviewed Nationwide’s AML and financial sanctions systems and 
controls. The Authority subsequently wrote to the Firm in April 2015 providing high-
level feedback on its review. The Authority considered that, broadly, Nationwide was 
taking sufficient steps to manage AML and sanctions risks. Although the Authority’s 
findings were largely positive, the feedback letter highlighted various areas for 
development. These areas included, but were not limited to, how the Firm assessed 
and managed the financial crime risks posed by its customers (including its 
prospective customers). 
4.13 The Authority noted Nationwide had indicated that it was “ working towards ” 
individually risk-assessing all of its customers. Significantly, the Authority’s letter 
referenced “weaknesses” in how the Firm was identifying high risk customers. In 
10 
 
 
     
        
          
  
 
             
           
        
 
       
   
          
            
 
         
   
          
   
 
         
           
         
  
          
 
  
 
   
    
       
    
     
             
             
          
        
        
 
     
         
            
           
     
 
               
           
    
   
        
            
      
 
particular, the Authority criticised Nationwide’s approach of classifying prospective 
customers as standard risk unless they fell into certain very limited categories 
flagged by Nationwide’s systems including customers who had been charged or 
convicted of a financial crime and customers with particular residency or balance 
levels. Further, the Authority drew attention to Nationwide’s use of “ narrow event 
triggers” for the purpose of flagging existing customers as being potentially high risk. 
As a result, th e Authority expressed concern that Nationwide may be unable to 
identify both existing and new high risk customers. 
4.14 Nationwide responded to the Authority’s feedback letter on 29 May 2015 and 
indicated that a Retail Risk Profiling (RRP) project (see paragraph 4.19 below) was 
underway, to introduce a system to automatically assess the financial crime risk 
presented by each customer based on defined criteria. Ahead of completing that 
project, the Firm had developed, and intended to continue to develop, an interim 
solution for identifying and monitoring high risk customers. At that time, the interim 
solution generated monthl y alerts based upon the application of certain event 
triggers (e.g. nationality/residency in a high risk country) and transaction monitoring 
rules (e.g. credits or debits to the account of a certain amount), to customer and 
transaction data, as well as receiving referrals from other business areas, such as 
the Police Liaison Team dealing with law enforcement bodies. Nationwide stated that 
the interim solution would be enhanced through the addition of further event triggers 
and monitoring informed by the higher risk money laundering and terrorist financing 
scenarios to which it was exposed. Moreover, Nationwide committed to review and 
enhance its policies and procedures as part of its continuous improvement process. 
MLRO report 
4.15 In September 2022 (i.e. following the Relevant Period), Nationwide completed its 
MLRO report for the period April 2021 to July 2022 which gave an update on the 
operation and effectiveness of its financial crime systems and controls. Specifically, 
the report noted that Nationwide had been acting outside of its financial crime risk 
appetite due to a need to improve a number of primary AML controls. The report 
highlighted a number of “priority” issues in need of remediation which affected many 
of its customers. These included, but were not limited to, gaps in required CDD data, 
no processes for risk based periodic and event driven reviews and transaction 
monitoring rules providing only partial scenario coverage of the AML risks which 
Nationwide was exposed to. 
4.16 The report concluded that Nationwide’s financial crime control environment was, at 
that time, only “partially effective” at mitigating AML (and terrorist financing) risks. 
Given the deficiencies in controls, its residual risk profile (i.e. Nationwide’s risk profile 
as assessed against its AML risk control framework) was assessed to be higher than 
previously reported. 
4.17 Although Nationwide did put in train a number of projects and actions to review and 
enhance relevant policies and procedures as part of its continuous improvement 
process, in line with the commitment given in May 2015, including the RRP project 
(see paragraph 4.19 below) and a project to improve transaction monitoring 
capabilities, Nationwide continued to suffer deficiencies in its financial crime 
prevention systems and controls during the Relevant Period (in the manner and with 
the impact set out in the paragraphs below). 
11 
 
 
       
 
             
 
            
             
     
           
 
          
            
      
 
  
 
             
             
 
       
  
      
 
     
           
           
    
  
          
    
          
    
   
          
   
    
        
 
    
            
    
         
   
 
   
             
   
         
            
  
          
 
         
             
(i) Refreshing CDD and conducting customer risk assessments 
4.18 At the start of the Relevant Period, Nationwide’s system for individually risk assessing 
customers was an unsophisticated, interim solution, with a formal scoring process 
still being developed at this time. Unless the customer fell into certain limited 
categories (one of which was if, for example, they were flagged by Nationwide’s 
systems that they had been charged or convicted of a financial crime), they were 
automatically classed as standard risk. Consequently, Nationwide did not have a 
sophisticated understanding of the financial crime risks presented by its individual 
customer relationships, such that the Authority was concerned the Firm had not 
identified (and would not identify) all of its high risk customers, either at onboarding 
or on an ongoing basis. 
4.19 Before the Relevant Period, Nationwide had commenced its RRP project which was 
intended to introduce a system which, amongst other things, would automatically 
assess the financial crime risk presented by customers based on defined criteria. In 
the meantime, Nationwide sought to mitigate its customer risk by adding a range of 
additional CRA event triggers (the majority of which initially centred upon a 
customer’s nationality/residency) and later expanding its interim CRA solution to trial 
various individual risk assessment metrics, pending the planned launch of its 
permanent solution in October 2018. 
4.20 However, the RRP system was not fully operational until early 2019. In May 2019, 
Nationwide Internal Audit conducted a review of the CDD data which the RRP 
customer risk assessment utilised, and how the system’s defined criteria were being 
applied. The review was conducted by Nationwide’s Internal Audit function against 
the risk that Nationwide was unable to identify high risk customers and therefore 
take appropriate steps to manage those relationships. Internal Audit concluded that 
the controls over the qu ality of data for the RRP system required “ significant 
improvement”, partly due to discrepancies in the number of records across systems 
utilised by the RRP. Relatedly, Internal Audit also identified a lack of oversight to 
ensure the quality of data being transferred between those systems. These issues, 
which culminated in 44,957 customer accounts having not been fed into Nationwide’s 
customer risk assessment tool, were subsequently investigated and resolved (with 
most of the outstanding accounts being fed into the risk assessment tool by late 
2019). 
4.21 The MLRO report for the year ending March 2020 noted that, from July 2019, the 
firm had enhanced the CDD it was gathering. However, the uplift in CDD information 
only applied to some 888,618 customers that year (either brand new customers or 
existing custo mers seeking new products), representing just 5% of Nationwide’s 
customer base. 
4.22 Additionally, whilst this enhanced CDD was placed on a database available to the 
SARs and EDD teams, it had not been fed into the firm’s main customer data 
repository and so did not inform the RRP customer risk assessment or transaction 
monitoring systems. Furthermore, the Firm did not consider certain information 
which was pertinent to its obligations under the MLRs (i.e. of relevance to its 
understanding of the purpose and nature of the business relationship with a 
customer) so that it could undertake an effective customer risk assessment. 
4.23 Nationwide's RRP and MLR17 projects were working towards ensuring that the 
enhanced CDD data items fed into the RRP system. This was achieved from August 
12 
 
 
        
 
              
  
          
  
      
         
            
        
 
   
          
   
     
          
       
 
           
        
            
            
        
 
              
             
            
             
           
         
           
           
           
   
  
 
  
              
          
   
           
         
  
         
          
        
   
   
    
    
 
        
  
2020. However, these data items could not be considered for customer risk scoring 
purposes until April 2021. The MLR17 project had also been working on an event -
driven review capability, but this had been deferred to focus on the capture and use 
of customer data. This position was revisited by Nationwide in June 2020, with a 
recommendation that further advice be sought on the compliance gaps (and planned 
remediation steps) which remained, namely that: (i) there was no refresh planned 
for back-book customers (i.e. those who do not open new products); (ii) there was 
no trigger mechanism or technical solution scheduled to be delivered in order to 
refresh CDD on an ongoing basis; and (iii) the additional CDD being captured would 
not be consumed by Nationwide’s transaction monitoring tool. 
4.24 In October 2020 a review commissioned by Nationwide from a firm of compliance 
consultants identified the need for improvements. In particular, it expressed concern 
about whether Nationwide had accurately identified the full extent of its high risk 
customer population, which at that time numbered just over 2,000 customers. The 
report observed that this number was “ exceptionally low ” when compared to the 
overall population of approximately 18 million customers. 
4.25 Notably, following improvements to the Firm’s customer risk assessment tool as part 
of the financial crime transformation programme, Nationwide identified that over 
18,000 customers (in addition to those that fell into certain very specific categories, 
for example, they were flagged by Nationwide’s systems as having been charged or 
convicted of a financial crime) were potentially high risk. 
4.26 By the end of the Relevant Period, Nationwide also continued to have concerns about 
gaps in CDD for customers, which were significant in some cases, including in relation 
to retrievable verification evidence. The CDD gaps meant it was not always possible 
to complete a customer risk assessment fully and, therefore, it was not possible for 
Nationwide to be confident that all high risk customers had been identified. In 
particular, Nationwide recorded in its MLRO report for 2021/22 that significant gaps 
existed across the CDD data of numerous customers (including personal current 
account customers). Specifically, it was only by September 2022 that Nationwide had 
successfully updated the ID&V records of 190,000 customers, with a further 110,000 
active customers with incomplete ID&V records due to gaps in data requiring 
remediation. 
4.27 Likewise, the report recorded that a cohort of approximately 830,000 existing 
customers needed fuller CDD as a “priority” on the basis that “these may be assessed 
as high-risk once the required CDD data is collected”. Nationwide considered that the 
CDD gaps impacting the remaining “ 15m” customers were “ less material” or “ not 
material” and it was therefore “unlikely” or “very unlikely” that those customers were 
high risk, although this needed to be validated. 
4.28 Subsequently, through testing and remedial work undertaken after the Relevant 
Period, which resulted in Nationwide reviewing over 18,000 potentially high risk 
customers, confirming the high risk categorisation of certain of those customers (in 
addition to increasing the risk categorisation of a large number of customers from 
standard to medium risk), and exiting existing customers identified as outside the 
Firm's risk appetite, Nationwide con sidered that its remaining customer base was 
generally low risk. 
4.29 Accordingly, notwithstanding the improvements made, the deficiencies in 
Nationwide’s customer risk assessment architecture during the Relevant Period (in 
13 
 
 
           
           
            
          
 
     
 
  
 
        
   
      
   
    
        
      
                                   
 
            
           
          
               
   
        
     
           
         
 
        
          
     
             
              
           
  
     
  
         
             
 
    
          
  
             
       
           
    
              
      
            
           
              
       
particular until August 2020 – see paragraph 4.23 above) were relevant to its 
monitoring of many of its customer relationships. This had a potentially material 
impact on its ability to monitor effectively customer relationships on an appropriate 
basis and within the risk appetite approved by its board. 
(ii) Periodic and event-driven reviews 
4.30 Pursuant to the MLRs, firms (including Nationwide) must maintain up -to-date 
knowledge and understanding of their customers and business relationships. Firms 
are therefore required to undertake reviews of existing customer records to ensure 
that documents a nd information obtained for CDD and EDD purposes remain 
accurate. In respect of ID&V documentation and information, there is no obligation 
to re-verify a customer’s identity, providing it has been satisfactorily verified and a 
firm has no doubts regarding the veracity or adequacy of the ID&V evidence 
previously obtained. In order to be reasonably satisfied as to a customer’s identity, 
firms must exercise a risk-based approach taking into account factors including the 
nature and length of any existing or previous relationship with the customer. 
4.31 Periodic reviews involve a firm reviewing customer relationships at defined intervals, 
with the frequency dictated by the customer’s risk assessment. Event driven or 
trigger reviews involve customer reviews occurring outside of this set schedule, when 
events take place impacting on the risk presented by the customer. It is for firms to 
determine what events should trigger such a review as part of an overall effective 
framework. Common examples include customer -initiated events (such as an 
application to the firm for a further account or product) and on the occurrence of 
heightened risks identified through other monitoring controls (such as the firm’s 
transaction monitoring and/or its internal suspicious activity reporting systems). 
4.32 From October 2018 to November 2019, Nationwide’s policies and procedures made 
it mandatory for all business areas to undertake periodic reviews every two years for 
high risk customers, every three years for standard risk customers, and every five 
years for low risk customers. From November 2019 to June 2021, a periodic refresh 
was required every two years for high risk customers and every 5 years for standard 
risk customers, to be complemented by an event driven review process. Nationwide’s 
policies and pro cedures also made it mandatory for CDD to be updated/gathered 
when additional relationships were established with a customer and when certain 
other defined risk events occurred. These included, for example, transactions 
occurring on a customer’s account wh ich were significant in value and exceeding 
typical activity and/or complex in nature and/or executed with no obvious reason. 
4.33 However, for a substantial proportion of its customer base, Nationwide lacked 
appropriate systems to give effect to these internally mandated requirements. A 
December 2017 external review had recommended that Nationwide consider a 
potential enhancement in the form of an effective event driven review process linked 
to the outcome of customer risk assessments. At this time,  Nationwide had put in 
place a project to design and develop its ability to undertake periodic and event 
driven reviews. However, this was then deferred to focus on the IT build necessary 
to deliver usable CDD data (and therefore CDD refreshes). In October 2020 and June 
2021, external reviews highlighted that periodic reviews were not being performed 
at all on existing customers who had not been assessed as high risk, which for 
standard risk customers was a breach of Nationwide's policy requirements. Further, 
at the end of the Relevant Period, the work to deliver an event driven review process 
(outside of new account openings) had still not been completed. 
14 
 
 
          
    
 
            
            
             
      
 
    
 
            
         
  
    
           
 
    
             
 
         
           
         
  
    
         
            
           
              
    
    
 
             
            
    
    
   
         
  
 
   
        
    
          
         
    
        
  
       
        
         
      
 
4.34 The deficiencies in various controls during the Relevant Period prolonged the time it 
would take for existing customer relationships to be reviewed and their CDD 
refreshed, so compromising Nationwide’s ongoing understanding of its customers, 
particularly its existing customers who had been onboarded prior to previous uplifts 
in CDD measures, had not opened new accounts since, and were classified as 
standard or low risk before the introduction of RRP (which represented a substantial 
proportion of its customer base). 
(iii) Transaction monitoring 
4.35 The weaknesses outlined above in Nationwide’s monitoring controls impacted on its 
transaction monitoring system as a means by which inconsistent or unusual 
customer behaviour could be detected, investigated and addressed on a risk 
orientated basis. However, over the Relevant Period there were concerns about the 
effectiveness of the system which in the Authority’s view were material. 
4.36 In February 2017 an internal report noted that a recent FCA final notice against a 
major bank had highlighted the need for an effective, tuned and auditable transaction 
monitoring solution which took into account the CDD captured from customers. It 
referred to an earlier internal review of Nationwide’s transaction monitoring system 
completed in July 2016 with a rating of ‘some improvement required’ which identified 
weaknesses around data integrity, governance and understanding of rule 
amendments and design. Whilst the internal review concluded at the time that the 
system was compliant with the MLRs 2007 it noted, for example, that “…Although 
[the transaction monitoring] rules are generating alerts to allow for the identification 
of activity for investigation, there is no formal documentation which determines the 
purpose of the rules, the anticipated tolerances for alerting volumes, what the 
success of the rules should loo k like and whether or not they are relevant to 
[Nationwide’s] line of business and the ex ternal AML/ Counter Terrorist Financing 
(CTF) risk factors.” 
4.37 Later in 2017 Nationwide completed a review of its rules, making some changes and 
introducing rule documentation in response to the above review. The MLRO’s report 
for the year ending March 2018 noted that a review of transaction monitoring had 
been completed in conjunction with a firm of compliance consultants and a target 
operating model developed. The second phase of the RRP project, which had been 
intended to deliver integrated transaction monitoring capability was however 
unfunded. 
4.38 By at least late October 2018, Nationwide’s policies and procedures (specifically its 
Financial Crime Minimum Control Standards) made it mandatory for all business 
areas to apply transaction monitoring controls appropriate to the risk presented by 
the relationship and the circumstances of the customer including CDD/EDD gathered. 
However, the Minimum Control Standards document also recorded that “ There may 
be occasions where transaction monitoring is applied to all customer accounts 
without consideration for individual circumstances.” This reflected the fact that whilst 
Nationwide had specific rules targeted at high risk customers, its transaction 
monitoring rules otherwise applied uniformly across its entire personal account 
customer base and a customer’s individual circumstances (such as the CDD 
gathered) would only be taken into account by transaction monitoring al ert 
investigators, if a rule triggered. 
15 
 
 
   
            
   
          
  
           
   
    
           
        
     
  
         
 
            
          
           
  
           
              
           
            
        
 
       
    
       
          
       
          
        
          
   
          
    
          
 
            
            
           
           
 
            
          
    
             
          
            
             
            
   
             
             
4.39 In 2019, Nationwide engaged a firm of compliance consultants and commenced a 
project to review and improve its transaction monitoring systems and controls. A key 
area for development identified by the review concerned the matters in the 
paragraph above – the prescriptive nature of the transaction monitoring rules, which 
were categorised by product with singular thresholds applied to all customers and 
the need to introduce behavioural and peer comparison based rules via segmentation 
of customers. Other areas identified for improvement related to data integrity, the 
risk and control framework, emerging risk identification, use of CDD information, 
oversight and assurance and high risk countries. The 2019 review resulted in a four 
year ‘roadmap’ and placed Nationwide’s transaction monitoring technological and 
operational maturity at stage two out of five. By way of comparison Nationwide’s 
peer financial institutions were (when amalgamated) placed at stage four, a stage 
the roadmap assessed Nationwide would not reach until approximately 2021. 
4.40 On 30 January 2020 Nationwide responded to questions from the Authority about its 
transaction monitoring system, and its ability to detect large transactions which 
occurred on the personal account of a customer under investigation by various 
authorities for investment fraud (see further details at paragraph 4.58(d) below). 
Nationwide explained that the system was not fed by individual customer CDD such 
as expected income or usage and the rules in place had not alerted when the 
customer’s account received two credits of £40,000 and one credit of £50,000, each 
of which were i n excess of the customer’s declared annual income of £37,500. 
Nationwide described its “risk-based approach” as: (i) monitoring customer 
transactions against what is expected for a retail financial services product (their 
“rules-based” approach); and (ii) monitoring customer behaviours, through a design 
that would alert in cases where activity did not meet the thresholds of rules -based 
scenarios (their “behavioural” approach). As part of the analysis of the customer in 
question, Nationwide confirmed that it was considering the introduction of additional 
‘behavioural’ style rules, including potential ratio -based comparison between the 
customer’s income (from CDD held ) and the account turnover to better reveal 
potentially suspicious activity. The customer in question prompted Nationwide to 
review the system and explore applying lower frequency, volume and/or value alert 
thresholds. However, Nationwide decided against this because (amongst other 
matters) it would introduce significantly increased false positive alert levels, no other 
significant unknown risk exposures had been identified, and the roadmap was 
underway to review and improve the transaction monitoring system. 
4.41 In August 2020 the firm of compliance consultants reported on the new rules devised 
for the system. It considered these appeared to provide adequate risk coverage and 
would align it with Nationwide’s peers. However the report highlighted that a number 
of t he proposed new rules relied on salary/income information, which was not 
currently being fed into the system and in addition might not be accurate. It also 
evaluated the existing rules adopted by Nationwide in its transaction monitoring and 
observed “ The rules currently in production have a narrow focus, utilising very 
specific ML detection logic. This has limited [Nationwide’s] ability to cover the full 
range of its ML risks. There were also significant risk gaps observed when comparing 
risk typologies against those observed in other peer retail organisations”. The report 
recommended consideration should be given to daily and weekly (as opposed to 
monthly) batch process to align with "the general direction of the industry and peer 
organisations". A monthly batch process involves an alert being generated based on 
the previous month's activity. In common with all retrospective controls, monthly 
batch processing of alerts gives rise to the possibility that any funds associated with 
those alerts may have been transferred away before the alert is reviewed. 
16 
 
 
         
         
         
   
     
 
           
    
  
              
          
          
 
          
          
         
             
           
               
     
  
            
      
      
              
 
     
 
   
  
   
     
  
 
   
           
       
      
 
      
    
 
   
     
 
            
            
      
  
 
 
 
 
4.42 In February 2021 Nationwide’s staff performed a financial crime state of the nation 
control assessment. Overall, it rated Nationwide’s transaction monitoring as needing 
“significant improvement ” including to ensure its transaction monitoring systems 
fully mitigated against the relevant threats, typologies and scenarios to which the 
retail product range was exposed
. 
4.43 At the end of the Relevant Period, although improved through a significant 
programme of work, the transaction monitoring system still required development 
to be fully effective. In early 2022 Nationwide’s staff undertook a gap analysis to 
compare the findings in a recent FCA final notice against a major bank in respect of 
transaction monitoring, with Nationwide’s own applicable systems and controls. The 
analysis noted that whilst various workstreams were underway, there were 
continuing potential gaps in Nationwide’s transaction monitoring controls with 
respect to scenario coverage, parameters and data. For example, Nationwide needed 
to revisit the thresholds set before transaction monitoring alerts triggered to ensure 
that they remained appropriate and docum ent its processes for monitoring such 
thresholds. Concerns about “very high” thresholds in the previously applicable rules 
had also been expressed by a senior member of Nationwide’s financial crime function 
in 2020. The absence of complete and/or up to date CDD for certain customers also 
continued to impact the system to identify inconsistent or unusual activity by 
customers.  The MLRO report for the year ending July 2022 found: “Improvements 
are needed to the Transaction Monitoring capabilities and controls, as the current set 
of rules implemented, only provide partial coverage of risks and money laundering 
typologies that Nationwide is exposed to. As a result, unusual activity th at requires 
investigation to determine if it appears to be suspicious, may remain undetected.” 
(iv) Impact of the monitoring issues 
4.44 Nationwide implemented various workstreams to address these monitoring 
problems, including from June 2021 a financial crime transformation programme. 
However the cumulative impact of the above gaps was that even at the end of the 
Relevant Period Nationwide lacked fully effective systems for: (i) ensuring that its 
knowledge (including CDD) of customers remained current; (ii) monitoring its 
existing customer relationships on a risk -sensitive basis; and (iii) scrutinising 
transactions to ensure that they were consistent with what Nationwide knew about 
the customer. The risk that unusual activity by customers might remain undetected 
and/or that customers moving into the ‘high risk’ category over the course of their 
relationship might not be identified and actively managed, therefore persisted. 
(v) Lack of additional monitoring where personal customer accounts 
used for business activity 
4.45 A notable example of a particular cohort of Nationwide’s customers impacted over 
the Relevant Period were customers using their personal current accounts for 
business activity. The Authority considers that, over the Relevant Period, 
Nationwide’s failure to address in an effective or timely way the above financial crime 
weaknesses created a particularly high risk in respect of customers using their 
personal current accounts for business activity in breach of Nationwide’s terms and 
conditions. 
17 
 
 
          
 
             
           
  
   
 
         
  
       
             
 
           
   
  
  
   
  
   
          
 
           
  
       
           
        
 
          
 
           
           
          
         
           
 
          
           
           
  
            
            
           
  
       
 
  
  
     
 
           
        
AML measures and risks associated with SME banking 
4.46 Unlike most large retail high street banks, Nationwide did not offer business banking 
accounts for SMEs at any time during the Relevant Period. Further, Nationwide’s 
contractual terms and conditions prohibited personal current accounts from being 
used for business purposes. 
4.47 The financial crime risk profile of small and medium- sized business banking 
customers is different from, and may be higher than, personal customers due to 
factors such as the greater complexity involved in identifying corporate customers, 
the size and number of the transactions and monitoring their transactional behaviour
. 
4.48 These and other factors mean that firms ordinarily apply charges for business bank 
accounts. As a result of these charges (and on occasions other factors - such as 
challenges faced by businesses operating in certain sectors in obtaining access to 
bank acco unts), firms may identify customers seeking to use personal current 
accounts for business activity in breach of their terms and conditions. Whether to 
tolerate such use is a matter for the firm to decide. However, a firm must continue 
to meet its legal an d regulatory obligations, including its obligations to counter the 
risk that the account might be used to further financial crime. 
4.49 During the Relevant Period, the Authority’s guidance to firms on prevention of 
financial crime warned, in the section dealing with handling higher -risk situations 
and enhanced monitoring, that an example of poor practice would be where a firm 
makes no enquiries when accounts are used for purposes inconsistent with expected 
activity (e.g. personal current accounts being used for business). 
Recognition of risks presented by customers using personal current accounts for 
business activity 
4.50 On 19 October 2016, Nationwide’s Internal Audit team produced a ‘short form’ report 
to identify the extent to which personal current accounts were being used for 
business purposes. The report was prompted by several conversations between 
Internal Audit and business stakeholders which made it apparent that ‘business use’ 
was known and tolerated within the firm. The executive summary stated: 
“Nationwide’s T&Cs do not allow current accounts to be used for business purposes. 
However, there are no agreed appetite measures to monitor, manage and exit 
accounts that operate in contravention of the T&Cs. There are c.2700 accounts that 
are clearly bei ng used to facilitate business transactions. As these accounts were 
opened for private use, Know Your Business due diligence has not been undertaken 
creating a risk that Nationwide is facilitating business transactions for individuals and 
limited companies where we have no knowledge of the business activity.." 
4.51 The October 2016 Internal Audit report noted: 
(a) Impacted products included Flex, Flex Direct, Flex One, Flex Plus and Flex 
Basic (a product designed for customers otherwise unable to open a 
standard bank account with limited functionality). 
(b) The estimate of 2,762 accounts dated back to July 2016 and related to 
personal account customers receiving 40-2,700 credits into their account in 
18 
 
 
    
 
 
           
           
           
 
 
          
       
  
            
 
 
     
           
     
 
         
  
      
 
            
 
    
       
       
   
 
        
      
 
        
        
       
  
         
  
 
   
            
    
  
   
  
     
 
  
         
           
  
  
      
a month. The average personal account customer received 4 credits in a 
month. 
(c) Four customers were included in the analysis by way of example. This 
included a customer who had received numerous cash credits and appeared 
to be operating in what Nationwide subsequently defined as a ‘high risk 
industry’. 
(d) The root cause of the issues was that there was an awareness across 
Nationwide that in practice customers might use their personal current 
account for business purposes, but accountability was not assigned for the 
setting and managing of risk appetite as there was no clear owner for doing 
so. 
4.52 The report set a ‘Issue Target date’ of 15 May 2017 but noted in the ‘Management 
Action Plan’ that resolution of the issue was subject to dependencies including roles 
and accountabilities which still needed to be defined
. 
Recognition of multiple AML risks arising from the issue 
4.53 In addition to the risks identified above during and/or after the Relevant Period the 
Firm also identified what the Authority considers to have been significant financial 
crime risks arising from the business use of personal current accounts including: 
(a) Nationwide’s financial crime control framework was not set up to manage 
the specific financial crime risks associated with operating accounts for 
businesses. Nationwide was facilitating business transactions for individuals 
and limited companies where it h ad no knowledge of the business activity
. 
Risks arising from allowing accounts designed to be used by individuals to 
be used for business activity spanned systems and controls across all stages 
of the customer relationship lifecycle and involved: 
(i) CDD measures which were not calibrated to business customers. For 
example, the Firm’s questions were designed to understand personal 
income, occupation and lifestyle, and not business characteristics. 
The Firm’s questions did not capture basic information relevant to 
businesses such as the nature of the business and expected trading 
patterns. 
(ii) Insufficient CDD meant the Firm was in some cases not capturing 
data for businesses, and if applicable (i.e. in the event of the business 
being that of a legal entity other than the customer), their owners 
and controllers to ensure they could be screened a ppropriately, to 
include, for example, for sanctions or adverse media matches. This 
created a risk that in such cases the Firm would not identify that it 
was facilitating transactions for sanctioned entities. 
(iii) Insufficient CDD meant Nationwide could not identify customers 
operating in an industry or geographical area which was outside the 
Firm’s risk appetite. In particular, the Firm’s AML teams had identified 
accounts being operated by money service businesses which 
Nationwide considered to be high risk and to require additional due 
diligence over and above that ordinarily required. 
19 
 
 
           
        
       
        
           
       
       
           
 
        
  
    
    
 
         
         
        
            
        
     
          
 
     
            
           
        
    
 
   
     
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
      
    
         
         
          
  
    
    
         
        
          
      
 
(iv) Insufficient CDD also hampered the Firm’s ability to produce accurate 
risk assessments to inform effective EDD and transaction monitoring. 
For example, transaction monitoring controls were not designed and 
calibrated to identify unusual and/or suspicious behaviours pertinent 
to businesses. Nor could they be because the Firm had not gathered 
the necessary information from businesses on their activities and 
expected account usage to establish what comprised normal and 
unusual behaviour. There was a risk that when business use did occur 
on accounts it would become normalised or generate false 
transaction monitoring alerts for the AML team to review. Nationwide 
identified that such false alerts were diverting resources in its 
suspicious activity and investig ations team which was operating at 
full capacity. 
(v) Training and processes did not include sufficient guidance on how to 
investigate accounts with potential business use. For example, a 
process for branch staff to close accounts used for business purposes 
was rarely used due to the lack of guidance to support identification 
of a business account and subsequent conversations with a customer. 
It was accordingly recognised that unusual/suspicious activity could 
remain undetected and not reported when appropriate to the NCA. 
(b) In relation to potential impact, internal concerns highlighted that: (i) there 
could be increased external scrutiny and the risk of regulatory censure; and 
(ii) Nationwide was exposed to the risk of being used to further money 
laundering, terrorist financi ng and/or tax evasion, and potentially 
committing criminal offences under the MLRs
. 
Nationwide’s insufficient and untimely response to the issues identified in the 
Internal Audit report in the period 2016-2020 
4.54 In the period between the October 2016 Internal Audit report and July 2020, the 
steps taken by the Firm to address the issues outlined in it were insufficient and 
untimely: 
(a) From April 2017 the Firm’s current account product team prepared papers 
for its Banking Proposition Board proposing a cross -community project be 
set up with the objective of: (i) defining acceptable and unacceptable 
business use; (ii) developing a process that identified and monitored 
accounts used for business purposes; and (iii) closing accounts being used 
for business purposes. In addition to the financial crime risks, the papers 
identified other risks associated with allowing customers to continue to us e 
personal accounts for business activity such as commercial risks (the higher 
running costs to Nationwide and absence of business banking charges), 
operational risks, and payment services risks (Nationwide’s systems were 
not designed for the volume of tra nsactions associated with business 
activity). At the same time, it recognised that closing the accounts could 
present risks to the account holders (particularly given the challenge of 
defining business use) and proposed these be mitigated through 
investigation of the accounts, and appropriate notice to the account holders 
to change their behaviour or make alternative arrangements. 
20 
 
 
            
     
         
          
 
  
 
             
 
  
          
         
         
         
     
 
     
        
     
         
  
 
        
 
         
      
 
          
        
       
   
        
 
    
 
   
  
        
     
  
   
         
           
   
  
 
   
      
 
  
 
            
           
(b) That project was set up by July 2017, began working on a definition of 
business use and prepared an outline process for investigating and closing 
them, noting it was “… essential that this weakness in Nationwide’s AML 
controls (identified in October 2016) is addressed as soon as possible…”. 
(c) However, in September 2017 the project reported that Nationwide lacked 
the capability to undertake the account investigations and it would take at 
least 12 months of work, once capability had been identified, to pilot a 
process to target the worst offender s. The project recommended that the 
Firm’s Banking Proposition Board tolerate the risks on the basis that 
Nationwide was planning to launch its own business banking product to 
which personal current accounts being used for business purposes could be 
migrated. This was agreed by the Banking Proposition Board for three 
months during which the Firm’s financial crime team were to “refine the risk 
assessment regarding ‘Know Your Business’ requirements”. 
(d) In February 2018 this risk assessment concluded that controls across the 
Firm’s framework (CDD, transaction monitoring, training, identifying and 
reporting of suspicions, screening and EDD controls) were not effectively 
designed for business activity, and that business use customers produced a 
significant and disproportionate percentage (10%) of all internal SARs 
submitted by employees and transaction monitoring alerts triggered by its 
systems. It outlined two options to address the risk
: 
(i) risk avoidance – progressing the work undertaken since 2017 and 
closing accounts where business use is identified; and 
(ii) risk mitigation – establishing the required controls. The “ minimum” 
controls required “to achieve an effective control framework” included: 
completing ID&V on business entities; screening them; obtaining CDD 
to understand the nature of the business relationships and their 
intended account usage; risk assessing the relationships; applying EDD 
where appropriate; ring -fencing the accounts; and calibrating the 
transaction monitoring system. 
(e) Despite the risks, on or around May 2018, the Banking Proposition Board 
elected to continue tolerating the risk of business use of personal current 
accounts. This decision remained in place until around April 2020, when the 
planned business banking product launch was discontinued. That decision 
was inappropriate in circumstances where: (i) Nationwide’s financial crime 
prevention controls for personal current accounts were not set up for 
business use; (ii) it had no settled methodology for calculating the n umber 
of personal current accounts subject to unauthorised use, and no framework 
for dealing with them; (iii) its controls for maintaining an up to date 
understanding of, and monitoring, its personal current account customers 
were not operating effectively; and (iv) whilst some work continued in the 
interim to understand and address the business use risks, insufficient 
mitigation measures were implemented. 
4.55 Subsequently, in July 2020, the Firm’s Financial Crime Risk Forum, noting that the 
risk from the issue was “ significant” and presented “ multiple financial crime risks ” 
that needed to be addressed, reported that work was still required to understand the 
scale of the problem and develop a process to manage the risks. 
21 
 
 
               
 
   
             
  
 
             
        
         
            
             
       
 
  
  
           
 
    
          
    
     
    
    
         
          
         
 
   
  
            
          
 
  
 
             
              
  
  
      
        
 
      
 
              
           
             
   
          
         
 
   
   
Eventual steps by the Firm to identify the scale of the issue and mitigate the risks 
4.56 Following the Firm’s decision to cease development of the business bank account 
product, it revisited the decision to tolerate the risk of business use of personal 
current accounts: 
(a) Work recommenced on assessing the scale of the issue and a proportionate 
response. Whilst work was plainly still required to enable the Firm to build 
an accurate understanding of the numbers of customers involved, there was 
at the time a view within at least the Firm’s financial crime function, that it 
had been well known for five years or more that customers were using their 
personal current accounts in this way. 
(b) Analysis had been undertaken in late 2019 which led to an early estimate 
that 17,000 customers might be using their personal current accounts for 
business activity. From around August 2020 members of the Firm’s data and 
analytics team were tasked with deve loping a model to identify accounts 
potentially being used for business purposes
. This was not straightforward, 
given that most business use occurred in 'mixed' accounts, that is accounts 
that were used both as a personal account and for some business acti vity. 
A three-month pilot of the model commenced in May 2021 and ran to July 
2021. By 6 July 2021, the model generated a figure of 133,200 customers 
which (depending on Nationwide's chosen approach) might need to be 
reviewed to assess if they were using their ac counts for business. The 
consequence was that c.16,000 accounts were ultimately identified for exit 
on the grounds of misuse of the account (see paragraph 4.58(b) below). 
(c) On 26 May 2021 Nationwide approved a business use framework. For the 
first time this incorporated an agreed definition of potential  business use, 
documented the Firm’s applicable risk appetite, and laid out a policy for 
managing business use of current accounts as well as accountabilities, roles 
and responsibilities
. Senior management oversight mechanisms were also 
implemented. 
4.57 In July 2021, management in the Firm’s current account business closed the issues 
in the report on the basis there was now: clear accountability for the issue; the key 
risks had been identified; systems and controls to mitigate the risks designed and 
implemented; and appropriate resources applied
. A subsequent report by Internal 
Audit validated this decision and found that progress had been made to reduce the 
risk of business use of personal current accounts. 
Risks and impact over the Relevant Period 
4.58 The Authority considers that the extended period of time which elapsed between the 
firm’s identification of a group of personal current account customers using their 
accounts for business activity and the Firm taking impactful steps to address it, 
comprised a failure by the Firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems. The 
risks flowing from these failures were not merely theoretical. 
(a) Whilst the Firm did not, until the end of the Relevant Period, have what it 
considered to be an accurate estimate of the number of customers using 
22 
 
 
     
          
          
         
          
     
 
            
       
 
         
    
            
         
         
      
 
     
   
         
        
        
     
 
    
 
 
          
           
     
           
         
         
           
 
     
  
   
  
 
           
   
          
            
  
 
           
 
            
       
 
their accounts in this way, such use was known about and tolerated (see 
paragraphs 4.50 and 4.5 6(a)). The February 2018 risk assessment (see 
paragraph 4.54(d)) noted that business use customers produced 10% of all 
internal SARs and transaction monitoring alerts. Although the number of 
these which resulted in external SARs were comparatively low (see 
paragraph 4.5 8(c)) this data made it clear that any low estimates of 
customers using their personal current accounts for business activity (for 
example, the figure of c.2,700 in the Internal Audit report) were unlikely to 
represent the true scale of the issue. 
(b) Applying the approved business use framework, in the period August 2020 
to August 2024, Nationwide determined that c.16,000 personal current 
accounts were being used for business activity and closed the vast majority, 
with c.600 awaiting closure pending th e outcome of matters outside the 
Firm’s control (for example, the account being subject to a freezing 
injunction or other court order). 
(c) Whilst (as noted at paragraph 4.53(a)(iv)) a significant proportion of the 
transaction monitoring alerts and internal reports of suspicious activity 
raised early in the Relevant Period did not ultimately result in external SAR 
disclosures (Nationwide’s SAR team presumably having concluded that they 
did not meet the threshold for reporting), approximately 2,147 external 
SARs were submitted to the NCA. 
(d) The submission of an external SAR does not automatically equate to 
crystalised risk. However, in late 2019 there was an awareness within 
Nationwide that there were two serious incidences of harm involving 
customers who were able to use their personal curre nt account(s) for 
business activity over an extended period of time without intervention. The 
Firm’s 2019 MLRO report flagged that “…two…cases in late 2019 brought to 
life these [i.e. business use] risks which attracted external press coverage 
and regulatory scrutiny. In July 2020 another paper highlighted that one of 
the customers was subject to investigation by the authorities for investment 
fraud. It was noted: “ These cases significantly impacted Members” and 
whilst staff at the Firm had spotted unusual activity, investigation using the 
CDD available had been unable at the time to confirm suspicious activity. 
The paper indicated that these were not the only two examples of the risk 
of business use: “ Multiple more recent cases highlight the risks from 
business use and the partially effective nature of our FC control 
environment”. 
4.59 During the COVID -19 pandemic the government implemented JRS, a temporary 
scheme announced on 20 March 2020 and designed to protect the UK economy by 
helping employers whose operations were affected by coronavirus to retain their 
employees. Only entities with a UK payroll and meeting other scheme conditions 
could claim. However: 
(a) The Firm’s records show that it was aware by at least May 2020 that around 
5,000 of its personal accounts had received furlough or grant payments in 
relation to COVID-19 and it was noted in May 2020: “These provide a strong 
indicator of business use on the account". 
23 
 
 
           
        
 
 
  
            
       
 
              
           
         
        
   
   
       
         
    
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
           
   
     
   
 
     
 
         
          
 
        
  
              
    
        
 
    
            
             
            
   
             
 
 
     
       
 
          
         
(b) On 24 September 2020 it was reported to the Conduct and Compliance 
Committee that JRS payments in excess of £17m had been deposited. 
(c) In total 33,678 JRS payments totalling £64.6m were paid into 5,191 
personal accounts at Nationwide. Furthermore, 93 of the Firm’s customers 
(including a number using a Flex Basic account) were able to use their 
personal accounts to receive JRS payments exceeding £50,000. 
(d) As set out in further detail below, over a period of 15 months between 2020 
and 2021 one of these customers, Customer A, received into their personal 
Flex Basic bank account 24 JRS payments totalling £1.35m over 13 months 
and £26.01m over 8 days following fraudulent claims to HMRC. Nationwide 
recognised Customer A's suspicious activity and reported it externally on 
one occasion. However, the account remained open for a prolonged period 
of time and Nationwide missed opportunities to identify unusual activity , 
make additional suspicious activity reports and/or terminate the relationship 
with Customer A sooner. 
4.60 JRS payments were made in support of businesses during the pandemic, and the 
receipt of such sums into Nationwide personal current accounts indicated 
unauthorised business use of personal current accounts. Nationwide’s business 
model was exclusively retail -focused and the Firm did not have an adequate AML 
framework for monitoring business banking . An adequate business use framework 
and better monitoring controls would likely have provided Nationwide with several 
additional opportunities to close Customer A's accounts. The Authority therefore 
considers Customer A's case to be an example of the deficiencies in Nationwide’s 
systems for monitoring its customers and for managing the risk of business use of 
personal current accounts. 
Nationwide’s relationship with Customer A 
4.61 In Summer 2021, Customer A was subject to account freezing orders based on the 
allegation that Customer A attempted to commit a large -scale fraud by way of 
successfully claiming some £27.36m of JRS payments from HMRC. These 
fraudulently obtained funds had been paid by HMRC into their Nationwide accounts 
during 2020 and 2021, with £26.01m received over 8 days in the calendar month 
before the freezing orders. A couple of months later in 2021 HMRC obtained forfeiture 
orders against five Nationwide accounts hel d by Customer A and seized some 
£26.54m from these accounts. However, some £820,687 remains unrecovered. 
4.62 Customer A applied for their first account with Nationwide on 25 April 2014. When 
they opened their first account, Customer A stated that they had lived at the address 
they provided since 1 January 2007 and that they were an owner-occupier. However, 
the address given was self-evidently not a residential property (i.e. the address name 
contained “office”). Customer A declared an income of £80,000 and advised that 
they were employed by Company X. Customer A was rated as standard risk at 
onboarding. 
4.63 In the period prior to 2020, Customer A commenced a number of applications to 
Nationwide for current accounts, savings accounts and credit cards. 
(a) Most of the applications were never completed by Customer A. All credit card 
applications were automatically declined for credit reasons (with one 
24 
 
 
        
    
 
              
 
  
            
            
          
 
   
          
         
  
 
          
 
            
               
           
             
 
    
        
      
 
            
   
            
  
   
   
 
     
  
            
              
           
 
  
            
       
 
          
          
 
              
         
  
 
      
   
      
application in 2014 being declined additionally because Customer A’s address 
was not confirmed). 
(b) All but one of the applications were made under the same customer profile. 
(c) One account application made by Customer A in July 2019 stated that they 
were a new customer to Nationwide and provided a different address to that 
which was held for them. This created a new customer profile on Nationwide’s 
Customer Information System which required Customer A to provide ID&V to 
enable the July 2019 application to proceed. As Customer A never provided 
that ID&V, the account was never opened, and the application remained in 
abeyance until it was ultimately declined in October 2019. That act ion to 
decline the application coincided with Nationwide declining two Flex Basic 
account applications from other prospective customers as linked to a fraud 
network. The address used in those two applications was the same as that 
used by Customer A in his July 2019 application. 
(d) Subsequently, in July 2020, a further account application made by Customer 
A was declined as a result of a name and address fraud network match alert 
flagging the earlier July 2019 application. This was escalated internally on the 
basis that Customer A was suspected of being part of a fraud network of non-
UK nationals living at the same address. It was also noted that Customer A 
had at that time received a substantial amount in JRS payments (over 
£100,000), in circumstances where he had previously declared an annual 
income of £80,000 and he had not previously transacted 
4.64 In 2021, after Nationwide became aware of Customer A’s fraudulent attempts to 
obtain JRS funds, they investigated the information provided by Customer A when 
they opened their first account and their subsequent account applications and found 
that all of th em contained material falsehoods regarding their address, occupancy 
status and income. Nationwide’s investigation established that, during their 7 -year 
relationship with Nationwide: 
(a) Customer A commenced over 20 account applications to Nationwide for 
current accounts, savings accounts and credit cards. Many of these account 
applications were either abandoned by Customer A or denied by the Firm due 
to Customer A having a low credit score, their address being linked to a fraud 
network or that the Firm was unable to confirm their address; 
(b) There were a number of interlinked applications involving family members. 
They all shared the same email provider and addresses. The majority of these 
were declined before the accounts were opened; 
(c) Customer A communicated with the Firm several times when one of their 
overdrawn accounts were referred to a debt collection agency; and that 
(d) Customer A had made material changes to their address 5 times (and 11 
times in total). It was further established that Nationwide’s systems had not 
flagged that: 
(i) none of the addresses were residential and 2 contained indications 
that they were virtual office addresses such as mail redirection 
services, office accommodation or short -term storage facilities 
25 
 
 
   
  
 
    
         
 
                
 
              
        
 
          
 
   
   
        
 
  
  
               
    
          
    
       
    
           
          
     
    
  
          
 
    
              
 
         
 
             
  
         
         
 
    
   
          
       
 
  
            
            
           
  
          
(e.g. the addresses contained words such as ‘storage’ and ‘office’); 
and 
(ii) one of the addresses provided by Customer A was heavily linked to 
company registration activity with 59,666 companies linked to it. 
4.65 Accordingly, it is the Authority’s opinion that from at least late 2019: (i) the Firm had 
opportunities to review their relationship with Customer A; and (ii) given the 
potential red flags, that its systems and controls should have prompted a review of 
the unusual activities and consideration of the associated financial crime risks. 
The JRS payments and interactions with Customer A from March 2020 
4.66 On 20 March 2020, after the beginning of the COVID -19 pandemic, the UK 
government announced the JRS Scheme. Over a 14 -month period, a total of some 
£27.36m was paid into Customer A’s FlexBasic account from HMRC. 
4.67 Between March and July 2020, Customer A received c.£100,000 of JRS payments. 
In July 2020, Nationwide's systems connected the main customer profile for 
Customer A to a suspected fraud network. This led to an internal suspicious activity 
report being made about Customer A and his receipt of JRS payments. When this 
internal suspicious activity report was reviewed, it was assessed not to be suspicious. 
There appears to have been inadequate consideration as to why JRS funds, which 
would typically have been paid to a limited company for onwards payment to 
employees (and not to an individual payee such as Customer A), were paid into a 
personal current account. Furthermore, red flags, such as large payments to a well-
known MSB from an account that did not have significant transactional activity before 
April 2020, were not taken into consideration. If Customer A’s other account 
applications, their CDD information and their transaction history had been included 
in the Firm’s assessment of their activities, this would have significantly increased 
the likelihood of Nationwide making an external report at this time (i.e. several 
months earlier than it did). In turn, this would potentially have helped to prevent 
further fraudulent activity. The Authority considers that th e flawed assessment in 
relation to the internal report is an example of the risks arising from seeking to 
assess whether potential business activity is suspicious without access to business 
CDD information, as referred to at paragraph 4.50. 
4.68 Nationwide’s own ‘Lessons Learnt’ review in respect of Customer A (which was 
referenced in the Nationwide ’s 2021 MLRO Report) concluded that a more robust 
control environment would have significantly increased the likelihood of the Firm 
identifying Customer A’s activity earlier and exiting the relationship. 
4.69 Further, this was in the context of Nationwide’s terms and conditions contractually 
prohibiting customers from using their personal current accounts for business 
purposes. The absence of a Business Use framework until 2021, impacted adversely 
the Firm’s ability to manage unusual activity appropriately. 
4.70 During this period Nationwide’s Internal Audit team was working on a project 
regarding business use of current accounts. As part of this project, the Firm’s Internal 
Audit team was considering JRS payments as a business use indicator. They identified 
Customer A’s account as being the customer account having received the largest JRS 
credits. On 17 December 2020, upon review of Customer A’s account activity, they 
raised an internal report of suspicious transactions, noting that the account had 
26 
 
 
  
          
         
  
 
      
          
           
              
     
             
      
 
            
            
   
    
   
        
 
           
           
              
             
   
              
 
               
          
    
 
            
  
   
           
             
 
       
         
    
            
         
 
   
 
           
   
 
         
            
    
 
received significant JRS payments which were transferred abroad using a MSB and 
concluding that these JRS payments may have been claimed fraudulently. In January 
2021, Nationwide alerted relevant authorities based on the December 2020 internal 
report. 
4.71 The Authority has seen no evidence that, in light of forming a suspicion in January 
2021 that Customer A was engaged in illegal activities (and using his personal 
current account for such purposes), the Firm took this opportunity to gather further 
CDD to verify that Customer A was a legitimate customer. The Firm also did not take 
any steps to restrict their account or to exit the relationship. Had Nationwide done 
so, Customer A would not have been able to receive any further fraudulently obtained 
JRS funds into their Nationwide accounts. 
4.72 On 10 March 2021, Customer A contacted the Firm using BBM. The Firm’s call centre 
considered their account activity as suspicious and raised a further internal report of 
suspicious activity. However, the AML Operations team concluded that as the Firm 
had alerted the relevant authorities within the previous three months in respect of 
the same type of activity, no further notification was required, in accordance with 
Nationwide’s internal procedure at the time (the ‘three-month rule’). 
4.73 Although the three-month rule was designed to reduce duplicative reporting, it was 
inappropriate. There is a statutory obligation to report any knowledge or suspicions 
of money laundering to the NCA by submitting a SAR as soon as is reasonably 
practicable after the information is received. There is no qualification in the relevant 
legislation which allows a firm to disregard it simply because previous suspicions 
were raised within a period of 3 months in respect of the same activity. 
4.74 Also in March 2021, Nationwide was made aware of HMRC’s interest in Customer A’s 
account activity. During the same period that Customer A received the JRS 
payments, they also applied for 3 current and 3 savings accounts. All the current 
account applications were declined or blocked, due to a fraud alert. However, 
Nationwide allowed the 3 savings accounts to be opened in April, May and June 2021, 
including one savings account which was opened two days after the receipt of the 
first extraordinarily large, unu sual JRS payment. Two of the savings accounts 
received a significant amount, by way of internal account transfers, of the JRS 
payments from the FlexBasic account into which HMRC had paid the JRS payments. 
4.75 Only one of Customer A’s applications resulted in an internal SAR being made (see 
paragraph 4.67 above). As such, despite having several opportunities to do so, the 
Firm failed to act appropriately. In the Authority’s opinion, there were gaps in the 
Firm’s control environment and, where there were controls in place, these either did 
not operate effectively or were not appropriately actioned. 
Account activity and transaction monitoring 
4.76 As explained at paragraph 4.39 above, in 2019 Nationwide commenced a project to 
review and improve its transaction monitoring systems and controls, which had by 
that point been acknowledged internally as “ far too narrow ”. Despite this remedial 
work, Nationwide’s transaction monitoring controls did not alert it of the suspicious 
and unusual activity on Customer A’s accounts until the month following the receipt 
of approximately £26m of JRS payments. 
27 
 
 
        
              
          
   
            
      
 
      
           
           
           
    
    
             
                
            
         
  
 
    
           
 
            
            
            
          
          
  
 
    
  
  
          
   
          
  
    
         
   
    
 
 
          
        
            
 
     
 
   
             
            
   
     
4.77 In terms of account behaviour, Customer A did not conduct any branch -based 
transactions and all activity was done by on-line banking or through the use of their 
debit card. The FlexBasic account that received the JRS funds showed very little 
activity befor e March 2020. The only external credits received before the JRS 
payments were from what appears to be a payment service company for £40.86 and 
no salary credits were ever received into the account. 
4.78 Upon receipt of the JRS funds, Customer A subsequently dispersed these funds, by 
way of internal account transfers, across the several savings accounts in their name 
and into a previously overdrawn personal current account. Customer A also 
transferred some of the JRS funds externally. From 30 April 2021, the total value of 
withdrawals from Customer A’s accounts were £1.17m. The bulk of the payments 
were made to a payment service which allows rapid money transfer abroad and a 
prominent MSB. However, a total of £250,000 of the payments to the payment 
service company were returned as visa credits over an 11 day period a month or so 
later. There were also a number of payments made to American and UK Government 
Departments, American accountancy and law firms and payments to Companies 
House. 
4.79 Automated transaction monitoring alerts applicable to Customer A’s accounts were 
triggered at the beginning of the month following the receipt of approximately £26m 
of JRS payments into their account, which was also after a production order from 
HMRC was r eceived and steps had been initiated to freeze all of Customer A’s 
accounts. The Firm’s transaction monitoring alerts are generated at the beginning of 
the month, based on retrospective transactional activity in the previous month. AML 
Operations were then required to investigate alerts within 20 working days. This 
means that an alert may not actually be triggered until several weeks after the 
activity occurs. 
4.80 Prior to 2021 the Firm’s transaction monitoring rules were limited in their ability to 
identify transactions which deviated from a given customer’s historical activity or 
anticipated activity. This compromised Nationwide’s ability to assess effectively the 
legitimacy of particular transactions on customer accounts and generate appropriate 
alerts. During the Relevant Period, Nationwide did deploy a ‘£1m+ payments’ rule 
which triggered manual referrals to AML Operations, however this only identified 
CHAPS/Swift and SEPA payments over £1m and not BACS payments. All JRS 
payments to Customer A’s accounts were made via BACS. This rule was an 
inadequate control mechanism, especially if customers were using their personal 
current accounts for business use when they were prohibited from doing so under 
the Firm’s terms and conditions . There was also no real -time fraud monitoring of 
incoming payments. 
4.81 In the Authority’s opinion, a more robust control environment would have 
significantly increased the likelihood of the Firm identifying Customer A’s activity 
earlier and, if so, potentially exiting the relationship in late 2020 or early 2021. 
Response to Suspicious activity reports 
4.82 Although the activity on Customer A’s accounts did raise some internal suspicious 
activity reports by staff members, as described above these reviews were not always 
dealt with adequately. In particular, the absence of a Business Use Framework until 
2021 may have impacted adversely the Firm’s review of at least the first internal 
suspicious activity report in 2020 and the actions taken in response to the other 
28 
 
 
          
    
         
          
    
  
             
       
              
 
     
 
  
  
           
     
         
          
 
  
 
              
 
  
         
 
           
          
    
   
           
        
     
 
   
           
  
     
 
           
         
    
     
          
           
    
             
    
           
        
  
   
internal suspicious activity reports. If Customer A’s other account applications, their 
CDD information and their transaction history had been included in the Firm’s 
assessment of their activities this would have significantly increased the likelihood of 
Nationwide identifying the suspicious activity much sooner and this would have 
helped to prevent further fraudulent activity. 
4.83 In November 2019 the Firm prepared internal draft guidance on which kinds of 
customer account use may indicate business use and therefore require account 
closure. It is notable that the criteria for closure of accounts which would lead to an 
exit included criteria that would have been relevant had they been applied to the 
Firm’s relationship with Customer A. 
4.84 If the Firm had implemented and enforced this guidance it is very likely that they 
would have exited their relationship with Customer A before at least some of their 
fraudulent claims for JRS funds. The Authority considers that this demonstrates that 
the absence or inadequacy of appropriate AML systems and controls (including in 
relation to unauthorised business use) adversely impacted the Firm’s ability to 
manage the risk of being used as a vehicle for financial crime. 
5. FAILINGS 
5.1 The regulatory provisions relevant to this Notice are referred to in Annex A. 
5.2 Principle 3 required Nationwide to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems. 
5.3 Further, rules in SYSC required Nationwide: (i) to establish, implement and maintain 
adequate policies and procedures sufficient to ensure the firm’s compliance with its 
obligations under the regulatory system and for countering the risk that the firm 
might be used to further financial crime (SYSC 6.1.1R); and (ii) ensure its policies 
and procedures enable it to identify, assess, monitor and manage money laundering 
risk, and are comprehensive and proportionate to the nature, scale and complexity 
of its activities (SYSC 6.3.1R). 
5.4 Nationwide breached Principle 3 and SYSC rules 6.1.1R and 6.3.1R in that, during 
the Relevant Period there were deficiencies in Nationwide’s AML systems and controls 
which had a material impact on its ability to monitor effectively its customer 
relationships as set out in this Notice: 
(a) Nationwide did not have effective systems for refreshing CDD and for 
conducting customer risk assessments. At the start of the Relevant Period, 
Nationwide’s system for individually risk assessing customers was an 
unsophisticated, interim solution, with a formal scoring process still being 
developed. Unless the customer fell into certain very limited categories (one of 
which was if Nationwide’s systems flagged that the customer had been charged 
or convicted of a financial crime offence), they were automatica lly classed as 
standard risk. This led to an exceptionally low number of only some 2,000 
customers being categorised as high risk (out of up to 18 million customers). 
Before the Relevant Period, Nationwide had commenced its RRP project which 
was intended to introduce a system which would automatically assess the 
financial crime risk presented by customers, and in the interim added further 
risk assessment triggers. Likewise, measures to gather enhanced CDD were 
29 
 
 
         
 
   
           
         
          
          
          
            
             
          
      
   
          
  
          
        
        
 
          
          
            
          
         
           
            
    
   
          
    
            
   
           
  
         
   
       
 
    
           
   
   
           
          
  
  
   
           
             
         
 
introduced. However, the RRP system was not fully operational until early 2019. 
In May 2019, Nationwide Internal Audit had conducted a review of the CDD 
data which the RRP customer risk assessment utilised, and how the system’s 
defined criteria were being applied. The review was conducted by Nationwide’s 
Internal Audit function against the risk that Nationwide was unable to identify 
high risk customers and therefore take appropriate steps to manage those 
relationships. Internal Audit concluded that the controls over the quality of data 
for the RRP system required “ significant improvement ”, partly due to 
discrepancies in the number of records across systems utilised by the RRP. 
Relatedly, Internal Audit also identified a lack of oversight to ensure the quality 
of data being transferred between those systems. These issues, which 
culminated in 44,957 customer accounts having not being fed into Nationwide’s 
customer risk assessment tool, were subsequently investigated and resolved 
(with most of the outstanding accounts being fed into the risk assessment tool 
by late 2019). It was not until August 2020 that the additional data items (a 
number of which were pertinent to the Firm’s obligations under the MLRs) were 
fed into Nationwide’s RRP system, and not until April 2021 that the enhanced 
data was considered for customer risk assessment purposes. 
Further, the measures introduced by Nationwide to gather enhanced CDD 
applied only to brand new customers and existing customers seeking new 
products, representing only a small percentage of customers. As at the end of 
the Relevant Period, Nationwide continued to hold concerns about gaps in CDD 
for existing customers, which were significant in some cases, including in 
relation to retrievable verification evidence. These gaps meant that it was not 
always possible to complete a customer risk assessment fully. It was not 
therefore possible for Nationwide to be confident that all high risk customers 
had been identified. Notably, following improvements to the Firm’s customer 
risk assessment tool as part of the FCTP, Nationwide identified that over 18,000 
customers (in addition to those that fell into certain very specific categories, 
for example they were flagged as having been charged or convicted of a 
financial crime) were potentially high risk. Notwithstanding improvements 
made during the Relevant Period, the deficiencies in Nationwide’s customer risk 
assessment architecture (in particular until August 2020) were relevant to its 
monitoring of many of its customer relationships and had a potentially material 
impact on its ability to monitor effectively customer relationships and within 
the risk appetite approved by Nationwide’s board; 
(b) Aside from customers already assessed as high risk (which in mid- 2020 
appears to have amounted to only some 2,000 customers), and (for the 
majority of the Relevant Period) in breach of its own policies, Nationwide had 
no process for undertaking either periodic or event -driven AML reviews of a 
substantial proportion of its customer relationships. . The absence of these 
controls throughout the Relevant Period prolonged the time it took for existing 
customer relationships to be reviewed and their CDD refreshed , so 
compromising Nationwide’s ongoing understanding of its customers, 
particularly its existing customers who had been onboarded prior to previous 
uplifts in CDD measures, had not opened new accounts since, and were 
classified as standard or low risk before the introduction of the RRP (which, as 
above, represented a substantial proportion of its customer base); 
30 
 
 
           
         
          
       
     
 
           
         
          
        
    
          
        
   
 
    
  
   
       
  
             
       
  
            
          
        
 
   
           
           
   
     
 
    
  
        
  
        
          
          
            
         
 
              
           
         
         
          
          
 
 
(c) The deficiencies in Nationwide’s risk assessment and CDD procedures impacted 
on its transaction monitoring system as a means by which inconsistent or 
unusual customer behaviour could be detected, investigated and addressed on 
a risk-orientated basis. However, Nationwide’s system for monitoring customer 
transactions for unusual activity was inadequate and ineffective. In February 
2017 when an internal report noted that a recent FCA final notice against a 
major bank had highlighted the need for an effective, tuned and auditable 
transaction monitoring solution which took into account the CDD captured from 
customers. It referred to a 2016 internal review of the system which concluded 
at the time it was compliant with legal requirements but that there were 
weaknesses relating to data integrity, governance and understanding of rule 
amendments and design. Nationwide undertook work in response and engaged 
compliance consultants to assist in developing the system including from 2019, 
to outline key improvements required and a multi- year ‘roadmap’ to deliver 
them. This placed Nationwide’s transaction monitoring maturity at stage two 
out of five (as compared with amalgamated peers, which were placed at four 
– a stage it was assessed in it that Nationwide would not reach until 2021). 
Other than for high risk customers, Nationwide’s existing transaction 
monitoring rules applied uniformly across its entire personal account customer 
base and a customer’s individual circumstances (such as the CDD gathered) 
would only be taken into account if a rule triggered. The review also suggested 
that Nationwide needed to introduce peer- based and additional behavioural 
rules. A review in 2020 of the planned new rules described the existing rules 
as narrow in focus, limiting Nationwide’s ability to cover the full range of money 
laundering risks to which Nationwide it was exposed. The review recommended 
consideration be given to daily or weekly (as opposed to monthly) application 
of rules to align with the general direction of travel of the industry. Concerns 
that alert thresholds for the pre -existing rules were set very high were also 
expressed by a senior member of Nationwide’s financial crime function in 2020. 
By the end of the Relevant Period, although improved by a significant 
programme of work, the system provided only partial coverage of the money 
laundering typology risks which Nationwide faced; 
(d) The Authority considers that these weaknesses significantly impacted 
Nationwide’s ability effectively to maintain an up -to-date understanding and 
records of all its current account customers and to monitor these customer 
relationships on an appropriate ris k-sensitive basis, including scrutinising 
customer transactions to ensure that they were consistent with what 
Nationwide knew about the customer. In combination, this created material 
risks over a protracted period that unusual activity by customers might remain 
undetected and/or that customers moving into the ‘high risk’ category over the 
course of their relationship might not be identified and actively managed; 
(e) There was a particularly high risk created by the above weaknesses in respect 
of customers who were using their personal current accounts for business 
activity in breach of Nationwide’s terms and conditions throughout the Relevant 
Period. Nationwide’s financial crime prevention controls for personal current 
accounts were not set up for business use (as Nationwide did not offer business 
banking current accounts for SMEs at any time during the Relevant Period). In 
particular: 
31 
 
 
  
      
            
         
        
         
      
 
          
   
 
        
           
  
        
 
            
  
     
      
 
   
 
          
   
         
          
       
         
          
            
  
 
 
           
 
 
           
             
      
     
     
   
           
           
    
     
        
         
  
         
(i) Nationwide’s CDD measures were not calibrated to capture business 
characteristics and meant that Nationwide did not capture sufficient data 
on businesses (and in the event of the business being a legal entity other 
than the customer, their beneficial owner s) to enable proper risk 
assessment, identification of customers operating in an industry or 
geographical area outside of Nationwide’s risk appetite, and (if applicable) 
EDD or other similar issues; 
(ii) Transaction monitoring controls were not designed to identify unusual 
and/or suspicious behaviours pertinent to businesses. Nor could they be 
because the Firm had not gathered the necessary information from 
businesses on their activities and expected accou nt usage to establish 
what comprised normal and unusual behaviour. There was a risk that when 
business use did occur on accounts it would become normalised or 
generate false transaction monitoring alerts for review; and 
(iii) Training and processes did not include sufficient guidance on how to 
investigate accounts with potential business use. It was accordingly 
recognised that unusual/suspicious activity could remain undetected and 
not reported when appropriate to the NCA. 
(f) Whether to tolerate unauthorised business use of personal current accounts 
was a matter for Nationwide to decide. However, allowing accounts designed 
for personal use to be used for business, without effective mitigating controls 
through adequate policies and procedures, exacerbated Nationwide’s AML 
monitoring weaknesses and created further risks across the customer lifecycle. 
The financial crime risk profile of SME banking customers is different from, and 
potentially higher than, that of personal customers due to factors such as the 
greater complexity involved in identifying corporate customers and monitoring 
their transactional behaviour, and the size and number of the transactions. 
These risks were material and created a consequential risk that unusual or 
suspicious business activity could remain undetected and not reported to the 
NCA; 
(g) From October 2016 to September 2017 the Firm’s staff carried out some initial 
work to assess the number of accounts subject to unauthorised business use 
and to develop an outline process for investigating and (where appropriate) 
closing those accounts. In September 2017 a decision was taken to temporarily 
tolerate the risks on the basis that Nationwide was planning to launch its own 
SME business banking product to which personal current accounts being used 
for business purposes could be migrated. Over a period of approximately two 
and a half years, the toleration decision was revisited but remained in place. 
In the Authority’s view, that was inappropriate. Nationwide’s financial crime 
prevention controls for personal current accounts were not set up for business 
use. It had no settled methodology for calculating the number of personal 
current accounts subject to unauthorised use, and no framework for dealing 
with them. Its controls for maintaining an up to date understanding of, and 
monitoring, its personal current account customers were not operating 
effectively. Whilst some work continued in the interim to understand and 
address the business use risks, insufficient mitigation measures were 
implemented. It was not until around April 2020, when the planned bu siness 
banking product launch was discontinued, that impactful steps were then taken 
32 
 
 
        
         
    
 
             
        
       
         
  
          
         
         
  
 
           
     
 
             
     
              
          
          
            
             
            
         
          
   
     
           
           
  
          
            
     
 
 
 
             
      
      
              
    
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
          
   
 
to develop a model to identify business use and create a formal written 
framework for defining, investigating, managing and, if appropriate, exiting 
unauthorised business customers; and 
(h) Nationwide was aware during the Relevant Period of the wide r monitoring 
weaknesses described above, and progressed or implemented a number of 
workstreams aimed at remediating or uplifting these matters, including 
through an ongoing project aimed at ensuring compliance with the MLRs 2017. 
However, these workstreams did not address the weaknesses in a sufficiently 
effective or timely manner and from 2020 Nationwide instructed a firm of 
compliance consultants to undertake a more comprehensive analysis of the 
effectiveness of its financial crime prevention framework and make 
recommendations on a target operating model. This produced a greater 
understanding of the work required to address weaknesses in the framework 
and resulted in the firm commencing from aroun d June 2021 a more 
comprehensive financial crime transformation programme. 
5.5 Because of these weaknesses in its AML control framework, policies and procedures, 
which it did not address in a timely manner, Nationwide was unable to effectively 
identify, assess, monitor or manage its money laundering risk in respect of its 
personal current account customers (with an increased impact in respect of 
customers using their personal current accounts for business activity); it also did not 
adequately implement policies and procedures to ensure its compliance with its 
obligations to counter the risk that the firm might be used to further financial crime. 
As a result, there was an unacceptable risk throughout the Relevant Period that 
inconsistent or unusual activity by customers might remain undetected and 
unaddressed. In addition, despite various opportunities, Nationwide failed to identify 
unusual activity on the part of Customer A in particular, who fraudulently claimed 
and received from HMRC into their Nationwide accounts 24 JRS furlough payments 
totalling £1.35m over the course of 13 months and then £26.01m over 8 days 
between 2020 and 2021. The Authority considers that those monies represented the 
proceeds of crime and that Customer A used their account to launder those funds. 
The Authority also considers that the Firm’s systems and controls should have 
prompted a review of the unusual activities and consideration of the associated 
financial crime risks from at least late 2019. 
6. SANCTION 
6.1 The Authority’s policy for imposing a financial penalty is set out in Chapter 6 of DEPP. 
In respect of conduct occurring on or after 6 March 2020, the Authority applies a 
five-step framework to determine the appropriate level of financial penalty. DEPP 
6.5A sets out the details of the five-step framework that applies in respect of financial 
penalties imposed on firms. 
Step 1: disgorgement 
6.2 Pursuant to DEPP 6.5A.1G, at Step 1 the Authority seeks to deprive a firm of the 
financial benefit derived directly from the breach where it is practicable to quantify 
this. 
6.3 The Authority has not identified any financial benefit that Nationwide derived directly 
from its breach. 
33 
 
 
       
 
             
 
               
    
            
    
        
 
     
          
            
       
 
   
   
          
     
        
  
 
     
     
     
                
     
 
   
  
           
             
 
    
             
 
 
         
 
 
    
    
 
     
          
 
        
 
      
             
 
      
6.4 Step 1 is therefore £0. 
Step 2: the seriousness of the breach 
6.5 Pursuant to DEPP 6.5A.2G, at Step 2 the Authority determines a figure that reflects 
the seriousness of the breach. Where the amount of revenue generated by a firm 
from a particular product or business area is indicative of the harm or potential harm 
that its breach may cause, that figure will be based on a percentage of the firm’s 
revenue from the relevant products or business area. 
6.6 The Authority considers that the gross revenue generated by Nationwide from its 
customers’ personal current accounts during the Relevant Period is indicative of the 
harm or potential harm caused by its breach. The Authority considers that 
Nationwide’s relevant revenue for this period to be £1,659,270,000. 
6.7 In deciding on the percentage of the relevant revenue that forms the basis of the 
step 2 figure, the Authority considers the seriousness of the breach and chooses a 
percentage between 0% and 20%. This range is divided into five fixed levels which 
represent, on a sliding scale, the seriousness of the breach; the more serious the 
breach, the higher the level. For penalties imposed on firms there are the following 
five levels: 
Level 1 – 0% 
Level 2 – 5% 
Level 3 – 10% 
Level 4 – 15% 
Level 5 – 20% 
6.8 In assessing the seriousness level, the Authority takes into account various factors 
which reflect the impact and nature of the breach, and whether it was committed 
deliberately or recklessly. DEPP 6.5A.2G(11) lists factors likely to be considered ‘level 
4 or 5 factors’. Of these, the Authority considers the following factors to be relevant: 
(a) The breach revealed serious or systemic weaknesses in the firm’s procedures 
or in the management systems or internal controls relating to all or part of the 
firm’s business
; 
(b) Financial crime was facilitated, occasioned or otherwise attributable to the 
breach; 
(c) The breach created a significant risk that financial crime would be facilitated, 
occasioned or otherwise occur. 
6.9 DEPP 6.5A.2G(12) lists factors likely to be considered ‘level 1, 2 or 3 factors’. Of 
these, the Authority considers the following factors to be relevant: 
(a) “The breach was committed negligently or inadvertently”. 
6.10 Taking all of these factors into account, the Authority considers the seriousness of 
the breach to be level 4 and so the Step 2 figure is 15% of £1,659,270,000. 
6.11 Step 2 is therefore £248,890,500. 
34 
 
 
             
  
          
             
             
 
    
            
 
 
    
 
    
             
               
    
 
          
 
           
  
    
   
 
          
           
   
         
            
          
          
           
 
          
     
        
           
  
         
 
             
           
   
            
            
           
           
     
 
             
  
  
6.12 Pursuant to DEPP 6.5.3(3)G, the Authority may decrease the level of penalty arrived 
at after applying Step 2 of the framework if it considers that the penalty is 
disproportionately high for the breaches concerned. Notwithstanding the serious and 
long-running nature of the breaches, the Authority considers that the level of penalty 
would nonetheless be disproportionate if it were not reduced and should be adjusted. 
6.13 In order to achieve a penalty that (at Step 2) is proportionate to the breach, and 
having taken into account previous cases, the Step 2 figure is reduced to 
£57,244,815. 
Step 3: aggravating and mitigating factors 
6.14 Pursuant to DEPP 6.5A.3G, at Step 3 the Authority may increase or decrease the 
amount of the financial penalty arrived at after Step 2, but not including any amount 
to be disgorged as set out in Step 1, to take into account factors which aggravate or 
mitigate the breach. 
6.15 The Authority considers the following factors aggravate the breach: 
(1) Since 1990, JMLSG published deta iled written guidance on AML controls. 
During the Relevant Period, JMLSG provided guidance on compliance with 
the regulatory requirements in the Handbook and evolving practice in the 
financial services industry. 
(2) Before, or during, the Relevant Period t he Authority has issued various 
written guidance in relation to AML controls to remind firms of the 
importance of having robust systems and controls in place to ensure 
compliance with regulatory requirements. These have inclu ded, in March 
2008 the Authority’s publication of its findings of a thematic review of firms’ 
AML processes in a report titled “Review of firms’ implementation of a risk -
based approach to anti-money laundering” (included examples of good and 
poor industry practice and reminded firms that their approach to AML should 
be aligned with the JMLSG Guidance), its publication in December 2011 of 
“Financial Crime: A Guide for Firms” (which highlighted the need to conduct 
adequate CDD checks, perform ongoing monitoring and carry out EDD 
measures and enhanced ongoing monitoring when handling higher risk 
situations), and its publication in April 2015 of “Financial crime: a guide for 
firms Part 1: A firm’s guide to preventing financial crime” (which set out 
examples of good and poor industry practice to assist firms). 
(3) The Authority has published a number of notices against firms for AML 
weaknesses both before and during the Relevant Period, including in respect 
of Coutts & Company in March 2012, Habib Bank AG Zurich in May 2012, 
Turkish Bank (UK) Ltd in July 2012, EFG Private Bank Ltd in April 2013, 
Guaranty Trust Bank (UK) Ltd in August 2013, Standard Bank Plc on 22 
January 2014, Barclays Bank Plc on 25 November 2015, Deutsche Bank AG 
on 30 January 2017 , Standard Chartered Bank on 5 February 2019 and 
Commerzbank AG on 17 June 2020. 
6.16 Consequently, Nationwide was aware, or ought to have been aware, of the 
importance of establishing, implementing and maintaining adequate AML systems 
and controls. 
35 
 
 
          
 
   
            
 
      
            
 
 
          
          
            
 
            
      
 
        
 
            
 
              
     
          
 
              
              
 
      
 
           
                 
           
        
             
          
    
  
            
       
 
            
 
          
 
           
    
 
 
 
 
6.17 The Authority considers that the following factors mitigate the breach: 
(a) Since the end of the Relevant Period, Nationwide has taken remedial steps 
in respect of its financial crime framework through the FCTP. This has 
included investing significantly in additional resource and capability to 
manage financial crime risk across its business (including aspects of its 
control framework which do not form part of the subject matter of this 
Notice). 
6.18 The Authority acknowledges that Nationwide cooperated fully with the Authority 
throughout the course of its investigation. However, this reflects the Authority’s 
expectations of authorised firms and is not a factor that mitigates the breach. 
6.19 Having taken into account these factors, the Authority considers that the Step 2 
figure should be increased by 10%. 
6.20 The Step 3 figure is therefore £62,969,297. 
Step 4: adjustment for deterrence 
6.21 Pursuant to DEPP 6.5A.4G, if the Authority considers the figure arrived at after Step 
3 is insufficient to deter the firm who committed the breach, or others, from 
committing further or similar breaches, then the Authority may increase the penalty. 
6.22 The Authority considers that the Step 3 figure of £62,969,297 represents a sufficient 
deterrent to Nationwide and others, and so has not increased the penalty at Step 4. 
6.23 Step 4 is therefore £62,969,297. 
Step 5: settlement discount 
6.24 Pursuant to DEPP 6.5A.5G, if the Authority and the firm on whom a penalty is to be 
imposed agree the amount of the financial penalty and other terms, DEPP 6.7 
provides that the amount of the financial penalty which might otherwise have been 
payable will be reduced to reflect the stage at which the Authority and the firm 
reached agreement. The settlement discount does not apply to the disgorgement of 
any benefit calculated at Step 1. 
6.25 The Authority and Nationwide reached agreement at Stage 1 and so a 30% discount 
applies to the Step 4 figure. 
6.26 Step 5 is therefore £44,078,500 (rounded down to the nearest £100). 
Penalty 
6.27 The Authority therefore hereby imposes a total financial penalty of £44,078,500 on 
Nationwide for breaching Principle 3. 
36 
 
 
                
 
   
      
    
     
               
   
       
               
             
            
 
 
              
          
  
     
          
   
          
    
  
      
 
          
      
  
   
        
7. PROCEDURAL MATTERS 
7.1 This Notice is given to Nationwide under, and in accordance with, section 390 of the 
Act. 
Decision maker 
7.2 The decision which gave rise to the obligation to give this Notice was made by the 
Settlement Decision Makers. 
Manner and time for payment 
7.3 The financial penalty must be paid in full by Nationwide to the Authority no later than 
29 December 2025. 
If the financial penalty is not paid 
7.4 If all or any of the financial penalty is outstanding on 30 December 2025 (being the 
next business day post the due date specified in 7.3 above), the Authority may 
recover the outstanding amount as a debt owed by Nationwide and due to the 
Authority. 
Publicity 
7.5 Sections 391(4), 391(6) and 391(7) of the Act apply to the publication of information 
about the matter to which this notice relates. Under those provisions, the Authority 
must publish such information about the matter to which this notice relates as the 
Authority considers appropriate. The information may be published in such manner 
as the Authority considers appropriate. However, the Authority may not publish 
information if such publication would, in the opinion of the Authority, be unfair to 
Nationwide or prejudicial to the interests of consumers or detrimental to the stability 
of the UK financial system. 
7.6 The Authority intends to publish such information about the matter to which this 
Final Notice relates as it considers appropriate. 
Authority contacts 
7.7 For more information concerning this matter generally, contact Calum Duncan at the 
Authority (email: Calum.Duncan@fca.org.uk / 0207 066 2536). 
Dharmesh Gadhavi 
Head of Department 
Financial Conduct Authority, Enforcement and Market Oversight Division 
37 
 
 
  
 
    
 
    
 
     
 
   
       
             
             
             
 
            
   
    
         
 
       
           
 
        
 
   
 
           
     
 
  
 
              
              
   
    
 
    
 
          
      
 
      
 
    
  
   
          
             
  
 
 
ANNEX A 
RELEVANT STATUTORY AND REGULATORY PROVISIONS 
1. Relevant Statutory Provisions 
The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
1.1 In discharging its general functions, the Authority must, so far as reasonably 
possible, act in a way which is compatible with its strategic objective and advances 
one or more of its operational objectives (section 1B(1) of the Act). The Authority’s 
strategic objective is ensuring that the relevant markets function well (section 1B of 
the Act). The Authority has three operational objectives (section 1B(3) of the Act). 
1.2 The Authority’s statutory objectives, set out in section 1B(3) of the Act, include the 
integrity objective (protecting and enhancing the integrity of the UK financial 
system). The integrity of the UK financial system includes it not being used for a 
purpose connected with financial crime (section 1D(2)(b) of the Act). 
1.3 Section 206(1) of the Act provides: 
“If the appropriate regulator considers that an authorised person has contravened a 
relevant requirement imposed on the person, it may impose on him a penalty, in 
respect of the contravention, of such amount as it considers appropriate.” 
Relevant Regulatory Provisions 
1.4 The relevant regulatory provisions (and guidance) in force during the Relevant Period 
are set out below. 
Principles for Businesses 
1.5 The Principles are a general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under 
the regulatory system and are set out in the Authority’s Handbook. They derive their 
authority from the Authority’s rule -making powers set out in the Act. The relevant 
Principles are as follows: 
1.6 Principle 3 provides: 
“A firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and 
effectively, with adequate risk management systems.” 
Senior Management Arrangements, Systems and Controls (SYSC) 
1.7 SYSC 6.1.1R states: 
“A firm must establish, implement and maintain adequate policies and procedures 
sufficient to ensure compliance of the firm including its managers, employees and 
appointed representatives (or where applicable, tied agents) with its obligations 
under the regulatory system and for countering the risk that the firm might be used 
to further financial crime.” 
38 
 
 
    
        
     
             
 
              
 
 
    
         
          
    
 
    
     
            
         
        
 
 
 
              
            
    
 
   
 
           
    
 
      
         
 
  
 
         
        
        
  
          
  
  
    
 
           
       
 
 
 
1.8 SYSC 6.3.1R states: 
“A firm must ensure the policies and procedures established under SYSC 6.1.1R 
include systems and controls that: 
(a) enable it to identify, assess, monitor and manage money laundering risk, and 
(b) are comprehensive and proportionate to the nature, scale and complexity of its 
activities. 
1.9 SYSC 6.3.4G states: 
“A firm may also have separate obligations to comply with relevant legal 
requirements including the Terrorism Act 2000, the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 and 
the Money Laundering Regulations.” 
1.10 SYSC 6.3.5G states: 
“The FCA when considering whether a breach of its rules on systems and controls 
against money laundering has occurred, will have regard to whether a firm has 
followed relevant provisions in the guidance for the United Kingdom financial sector 
issued by the Joint Money Laundering Steering Group.” 
DEPP 
1.11 Chapter 6 of DEPP, which forms part of the Authority’s Handbook, sets out the 
Authority’s statement of policy with respect to the imposition and amount of financial 
penalties under the Act. 
The Enforcement Guide 
1.12 The Enforcement Guide sets out the Authority’s approach to exercising its main 
enforcement powers under the Act. 
1.13 During the Relevant Period , Chapter 7 of the Enforcement Guide set out the 
Authority’s approach to exercising its power to impose a financial penalty. 
JMLSG Guidance 
1.14 The purpose of the Joint Money Laundering Steering Group (JMLSG ) Guidance is to 
outline the legal and regulatory framework for anti -money laundering/countering 
terrorist financing requirements and systems across the financial services sector. It 
provides interpretation on the requirements of the relevant law and legislation and 
indicates good industry practice through a proportionate, risk -based approach. It 
also assists firms to design and implement the systems and controls necessary to 
mitigate the risks of the firm being used in connection with money laundering and 
the financing of terrorism. 
1.15 The JMLSG Guidance is periodically updated . C hanges to the following relevant 
provisions during the Relevant Period are indicated below. 
39 
 
 
      
        
 
     
  
        
             
   
            
    
        
        
  
        
        
             
   
           
    
     
   
            
           
  
            
    
 
  
   
 
  
 
         
     
  
           
  
  
 
     
 
   
      
 
    
 
            
  
Relevant extracts from the JMLSG Guidance 
Part I - Chapter 4 – Risk-based Approach 
1.16 Paragraph 4.13 stated (until 13 December 2017): 
“Whatever approach is considered most appropriate to the firm’s money 
laundering/terrorist financing risk, the broad objective is that the firm should know 
at the outset of the relationship who their customers are, where they operate, what 
they do, their expected level of activity with the firm and whether or not they are 
likely to be engaged in criminal activity. The firm then should consider how the profile 
of the customer’s financial behaviour builds up over time, thus allowing the firm to 
identify transactions or activity that may be suspicious.” 
1.17 Paragraph 4.2 stated (from 13 December 2017 onwards): 
“Whatever approach is considered most appropriate to the firm’s money 
laundering/terrorist financing risk, the broad objective is that the firm should know 
at the outset of the relationship who its customers (and, where relevant, beneficial 
owners) are, where they operate, what they do, their expected level of activity with 
the firm. The firm then should consider how the profile of the customer’s financial 
behaviour builds up over time, thus allowing the firm to identify transactions or 
activity that may be suspicious.” 
1.18 Paragraph 4.51 stated (until 13 December 2017): 
“Where the risks of ML/TF are higher, firms must conduct enhanced due diligence 
measures consistent with the risks identified. In particular, they should increase the 
degree and nature of monitoring of the business relationship, in order to determine 
whether these transactions or activities appear unusual or suspicious. Examples of 
EDD measures that could be applied for higher risk business relationships include: 
 Obtaining, and where appropriate verifying, additional information on the 
customer and updating more regularly the identification of the customer and 
any beneficial owner 
 Obtaining additional information on the intended nature of the business 
relationship 
 Obtaining information on the source of funds or source of wealth of the 
customer 
 Obtaining information on the reasons for intended or performed transactions 
 Obtaining the approval of senior management to commence or continue the 
business relationship 
 Conducting enhanced monitoring of the business relationship, by increasing the 
number and timing of controls applied, and selecting patterns of transactions 
that need further examination 
1.19 Paragraph 4.62 stated (from 13 December 2017 onwards): 
“Where the risks of ML/TF are higher, firms must conduct enhanced due diligence 
measures consistent with the risks identified. 
(a) In particular, they must: 
 as far as reasonably possible, examine the background and purpose of the 
transaction; and 
40 
 
 
   
         
 
 
      
       
 
    
 
  
   
 
   
 
         
     
 
           
  
  
       
         
 
         
    
 
          
 
 
          
          
            
 
    
           
   
   
    
 
               
    
            
    
 
      
            
 
 
 
 increase the degree and nature of monitoring of the business relationship, in 
order to determine whether these transactions or activities appear unusual or 
suspicious. 
(b) Examples of other EDD measures that, depending on the requirements of the 
case, could be applied for higher risk business relationships include: 
 Obtaining, and where appropriate verifying, additional information on the 
customer and updating more regularly the identification of the customer and 
any beneficial owner 
 Obtaining additional information on the intended nature of the business 
relationship 
 Obtaining information on the source of funds or source of wea lth of the 
customer 
 Obtaining information on the reasons for intended or performed transactions 
 Obtaining the approval of senior management to commence or continue the 
business relationship 
 Conducting enhanced monitoring of the business relationship, by increasing the 
number and timing of controls applied, and selecting patterns of transactions 
that need further examination 
 Requiring the first payment to be carried out through an account in the 
customer’s name with a bank subject to similar CDD standards”. 
Part I - Chapter 5 - Customer Due Diligence 
Application of CDD measures 
1.20 Paragraph 5.3.15 (until 13 December 2017) / 5.3.18 (from December 2017 onwards) 
stated: 
“As risk dictates […] firms must take steps to ensure that they hold appropriate 
information to demonstrate that they are satisfied that they know all their customers. 
Where the identity of an existing customer has already been verified to a previously 
applicable standard then, in the absence of circumstances indicating the contrary, 
the risk is likely to be low. A range of trigger events, such as an existing customer 
applying to open a new account or establish a new relationship, might prompt a firm 
to seek appropriate evidence.” 
Enhanced Due Diligence 
1.21 Paragraph 5.5.1 stated: 
“A firm must apply EDD measures on a risk-sensitive basis in any situation which by 
its nature can present a higher risk of money laundering or terrorist financing. As 
part of this, a firm may conclude, under its risk-based approach, that the information 
it has collected as part of the customer due diligence process […] is insufficient in 
relation to the money laundering or terrorist financing risk, and that it must obtain 
additional information about a particular customer, the customer’s beneficial owner, 
where applicable, and the purpose and intended nature of the business relationship.” 
41 
 
 
    
 
           
  
      
 
  
     
           
           
       
 
    
 
         
           
      
 
   
             
          
             
              
            
        
   
     
 
          
  
           
           
           
         
     
 
1.22 Paragraph 5.5.2 stated: 
“As a part of a risk -based approach, therefore, firms should hold sufficient 
information about the circumstances and business of their customers and, where 
applicable, their customers’ beneficial owners, for two principal reasons: 
 to inform its risk assessment process, and thus manage its money 
laundering/terrorist financing risks effectively; and 
 to provide a basis for monitoring customer activity and transactions, thus 
increasing the likelihood that they will detect the use of their products and 
services for money laundering and terrorist financing.” 
1.23 Paragraph 5.5.6 stated: 
“When someone becomes a new customer, or applies for a new product or service, 
or where there are indications that the risk associated with an existing business 
relationship might have increased, the firm should, depending on the nature of the 
product or s ervice for which they are applying, request information as to the 
customer’s residential status, employment and salary details, and other sources of 
income or wealth […] in order to decide whether to accept the application or continue 
with the relationship . The firm should consider whether, in some circumstances, 
evidence of source of wealth or income should be required […]. The firm should also 
consider whether or not there is a need to enhance its activity monitoring in respect 
of the relationship. A firm should have a clear policy regarding the escalation of 
decisions to senior management concerning the acceptance or continuation of high-
risk business relationships.” 
1.24 Paragraph 5.5.7 stated: 
“The availability and use of other financial information held is important for reducing 
the additional costs of collecting customer due diligence information and can help 
increase a firm’s understanding of the risk associated with the business relationship. 
Where appropriate and practical, therefore, and where there are no data protection 
restrictions, firms should take reasonable steps to ensure that where they have 
customer due diligence information in one part of the business, they are able to link 
it to information in another.” 
42 
