 
 
 
 
 
    
 
FINAL NOTICE 
 
 
 
 
To: Policy Administration Services Limited 
 
Firm 
Reference 
Number: 307406  
 
Address: Osprey House 
 Ore Close  
 Lymedale Business Park 
 Newcastle-under-Lyme 
 Staffordshire  
 ST5 9QD 
 
Date: 1 July 2013 
 
ACTION 
1. For the reasons given in this notice, the Authority hereby  imposes on Policy 
Administration Services Limited (“PAS”) a financial penalty of £2,834,700.  This 
penalty is in respect of breaches of Principles 3 and 6 of the Authority’s Principles 
for Businesses (“the Principles”) during the period 19 June 2009 to 27 September 
2011 (“the Relevant Period”).  
2. PAS agreed to settle at an early stage of the Authority’s investigation.  PAS 
therefore qualified for a 30% (stage 1) discount under the Authority’s executive 
settlement procedures.  Were it not for this discount, the Authority would have 
imposed a financial penalty of £4,049,637 on PAS. 
 2  
SUMMARY OF REASONS 
3. PAS is an insurance intermediary, which administers mobile phone insurance 
products that are sold through its Appointed Repres entative, Phones 4u Limited 
(“AR”).  PAS is responsible for customer relations, claims assessment, claims 
handling, claims fulfilment and complaints handling services in respect of these 
policies. 
4. The Authority has found that during the Relevant Period PAS breached: 
i. Principle 3 of the Principles by failing to take reasonable care to organise 
and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems, in that it failed to put in place: 
a. adequate complaint handling procedures to  ensure all complaints 
were handled in accordance with DISP rules; and 
b. appropriate management controls and take reasonable steps to 
ensure that in handling complaints it fully identified and remedied 
any recurring or systemic problems, in accordance with D ISP 
1.3.3R,  which meant that there was a risk that PAS may have 
failed to identify systemic problems; and 
ii. Principle 6 of the Principles by failing to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly  with regard to complaints handling , by 
failing to: 
a. categorise and record all customer expressions of dissatisfaction 
about insurance policies  sold by the AR as complaints with the risk 
that such complaints may not have been subsequently resolved in 
accordance with DISP 1.4.1R; 
b. accurately a nd consistently record the details and outcomes of 
customer complaints;  
c. investigate fully some customers’ complaints in accordance with 
DISP 1.4.1R where allegations of mis -selling were made about the 
sale of its products by the AR , as, for example, PAS s ometimes 
rejected mis -selling complaints solely on the basis that the 
customer had signed a Direct Debit Mandate for the payment of 
insurance premiums; 
 3  
d. resolve some customer complaints by taking appropriate remedial 
action and/or offering redress in accordance with DISP 1.4.1R, as in 
some cases PAS offered customers a gesture of goodwill, the 
amount of which was left to the discretion of the complaint handler; 
and 
e. undertake a root cause analysis of customers’ complaints in 
accordance with DISP 1.3.3R.  
5. As a  consequence of the above failings, customers who complained about the 
insurance policies sold to them were not all treated fairly, in that a number of the 
complaints were not dealt with appropriately or in full.  The Authority considers 
these failings to be serious due to the risk of a significant number of customers  
who complained being affected over a period of more than two years and due to 
the risk of PAS failing to detect and address any systemic issues as a result of not 
conducting a full root cause analysis. 
6. The Authority considers that the failings identified in this case have been 
aggravated by the fact that PAS failed to identify the breaches.  In addition, the 
Authority’s guidance and other published materials had already raised relevant 
concerns on the matter of treating customers fairly.  This material is widely 
available and has been bought to the attention of all firms in this sector.  PAS 
accepts the Authority’s findings and the failings identified have been mitigated by 
the decision by PAS’s senior management to take a wide range of steps to stop 
the breaches, once they were brought to their attention by the Authority. This 
included the retention of a professional services firm to review PAS’s complaints 
and sales processes.  PAS has also tak en remedial steps since being notified of 
the breaches to identify and compensate any customers who have suffered a loss.  
At its own initiative, PAS has completed a review of all of the 7,099 recorded 
customer complaints about mis -selling received during the Relevant Period, re -
investigated where applicable and compensated 1,438 customers.  
DEFINITIONS 
7. The definitions below are used in this Final Notice. 
“the Act” means the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. 
“AR” means the Appointed Representative, Phones 4u Limited.  
 4  
“the Authority” means the body corporate previously known as the Financial 
Services Authority and renamed on 1 April 2013 as the Financial Conduct 
Authority. 
“the Authority’s Handbook” means the Authority’s Handbook of rules and 
guidance. 
“Complaint Management Guide” means the guide that PAS had in place during the 
Relevant Period, which set out how the Customer Relations Department should 
record, investigate and resolve complaints. 
“Customer Relations Department” means the department at PAS which deals with 
customer complaints that have been (i) escalated by the Customer Services 
Department; (ii) received in writing; or (iii) made in person by a complainant that 
has visited the PAS office. 
“Customer Services Department” means the departme nt at PAS which initially 
deals with customers that phone in to make a complaint. 
“Direct Debit Mandate” means the direct debit instruction signed by a customer to 
that customer’s bank to pay the premiums for the insurance policy. 
“DISP” means the Dispute Resolution: Complaints Sourcebook as set out in the 
Authority’s Handbook. 
“DEPP” means the Decision Procedure and Penalties Manual as set out in the 
Authority’s Handbook. 
 “Glossary” means the part of the Authority’s Handbook which defines the terms 
used in the Authority’s Handbook. 
“the New Penalty Regime” means that penalty regime which was effective on and 
from 6 March 2010. 
“the Old Penalty Regime” means the penalty regime which was effective prior to 6 
March 2010. 
“PAS” means Policy Administration Services Limited. 
“the Principles” means the Authority’s Principles for Businesses. 
“the Relevant Period” means the period from 19 June 2009 to 27 September 
2011, being the period in which the Complaint Management Guide was in place. 
 5  
“the Sample Review Period” means the period from 1 January 2010 to 28 July 
2011, which is the period that the Authority used to review a sample of 
complaints recorded by PAS. 
“the Tribunal” means the Upper Tribunal (Tax and Chancery Chamber). 
FACTS AND MATTERS 
PAS Business 
8. PAS is a n insurance intermediary, which has been authorised by the Authority 
since 14 January 2005.  PAS provides mobile phone insurance policies through its 
AR.  PAS is responsible for the customer relations, claims assessment, claims 
handling, claims fulfilment and complaints handling services.  Customers can 
purchase the insurance policies either from PAS’s AR over the phone or in-store or 
from PAS directly. 
9. During the Relevant Period, PAS sold approximately 1.6 million mobile phone 
insurance policies. 
Complaints handling at PAS 
10. When customers phoned PAS to make a complaint during the Relevant Period, 
they were initially put through to the Customer Services Department.  Complaints 
made related to either the original sale of the policy, the way that a claim had 
been handled, or the outcome of a claim which the customer did not accept.  If 
the complaint related to an allegation of mis -selling it was immediately referred 
to the Customer Relations Department.  In respect of other types of complaints, if 
the complaint handler in the Customer Services Department was unable to 
resolve the complaint, it was escalated to the team manager.  If the team 
manager was unable to resolve the complaint , it was referred to the Customer 
Relations Department.  It was only when the com plaint was referred to the 
Customer Relations Department that it was officially recorded as a complaint. 
11. During the Relevant Period, PAS had in place a Complaint Management Guide, 
which set out how the Customer Relations Department should record complaints .  
It also provided guidance on how to investigate and resolve complaints.   
Failure to record all customer expressions of dissatisfaction as complaints 
12. The Complaint Management Guide defined a complaint as: 
 6  
‘Any expression of dissatisfaction, whether just ified or not, involving an allegation 
that the customer has suffered or may suffer financial loss, material distress or 
material inconvenience.’ 
13. The Complaint Management Guide went on to provide that a complaint would only 
meet the definition outlined above, and would only be recorded as a complaint, if: 
i. it was made in writing (though this was an error in the Complaint 
Management Guide and not followed in practice); or 
ii. the original handler of a verbal complaint could not immediately resolve the 
complaint themselves and neither could their team manager if the call was 
escalated to them, and/or it was not resolved by the end of the same 
business day; or 
iii. a complainant visited the PAS offices to make a complaint. 
14. The above definition in the Complaint Management Guide meant that where a 
customer phoned in to make a complaint, and that complaint was resolved on the 
same business day, then it was not officially classed or recorded as a complaint.  
This does not correspond with the Glossary definition of a complaint in the 
Authority’s Handbook, which for the purposes of DISP defines a complaint as ‘any 
oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not’.    
15. DISP 1.5.2G provides that complaints resolved by close of business the next day 
are still s ubject to the resolution rules in DISP 1.4.1R.  The resolution rules in 
DISP 1.4.1R include investigating the complaint competently, diligently and 
impartially and offering redress to the customer if it is decided that this is 
appropriate.  Where customers phoned in to make a complaint, and PAS resolved 
those complaints on the same day, they were recorded against the customer’s file 
but not recorded formally as a complaint and there was a risk that PAS would not 
deal with these complaints in accordance with all the requirements of DISP.   
16. By not recording all customer expressions of dissatisfaction as complaints, PAS 
could not demonstrate that it had applied the above resolution rules to all 
complaints as required by DISP and subsequently there was a risk th at it did not 
treat all its customers who made complaints fairly. 
17. PAS’s failure to categorise and record all customer expressions of dissatisfaction 
as complaints also meant that any management information collated in relation to 
the level of complaints wa s inaccurate.  For example, a review of a sample of 
 7  
complaints recorded by PAS during the period 1 January 2010 to 28 July 2011 
(“the Sample Review Period”) revealed that PAS recorded 7,024 complaints in 
respect of approximately 1.2 million sales which amo unts to 0.58%.  PAS 
considered that this low level of complaints, compared to the number of policies 
sold during the same period, was a positive reflection of its service and it did not 
realise that complaints were being categorised or recorded incorrectly .  Therefore, 
although PAS recorded some complaints correctly, there remained a risk that PAS 
may have taken false comfort from the management information that was 
provided. 
Failure to record complaints accurately and/or consistently 
18. The complaints data pr ovided by PAS demonstrates that where a record of a 
complaint was made, sometimes that record did not accurately reflect the details 
and outcome of that complaint.  Furthermore, the outcomes of complaints that 
were similar in nature were not always recorde d in a consistent manner.   This is 
addressed in more detail below.    
19. Of 7,024 customer complaints received during the Sample Review Period, 3,652 
(52%) were recorded by PAS as being unjustified.  Of these, 814 customers 
(22%) received either (i) a full refund of the premiums paid or (ii) a refund of 
some of the premiums paid by the customer.  Where some or all of the premiums 
paid by the customer were refunded, this was sometimes recorded by PAS as a 
‘refund’, and sometimes as a ‘gesture of goodwill’.  There is no explanation in the 
complaints data provided by PAS to clarify why 814 of the 3,652 customer 
complaints that were recorded as ‘unjustified’, received a refund of either all or 
part of the premiums paid.  There is also no explanation given as to wh y this was 
sometimes recorded as a ‘refund’ and sometimes as a ‘gesture of goodwill’.  It is 
unclear whether recording a payment either as a ‘refund’ or a ‘gesture of goodwill’ 
meant that PAS considered that some aspect of the complaint was in fact 
justified, or whether PAS considered that the entirety of the complaint was 
unjustified and was simply making an ex -gratia payment to keep the customer 
happy.  
20. A review of 35 customer complaint files relating to allegations of mis -selling 
further revealed PAS’s f ailure to record customer complaints accurately and 
consistently.  For example, the Authority found the following.  
i. Eight customer complaints were recorded by PAS as being justified.  Of 
these, seven customers received either a full or partial refund.  Six  of these 
 8  
refunds were recorded as being a ‘gesture of goodwill’, even though one of 
these refunds was recorded by PAS as being in relation to an insurance 
policy that had been set up ‘fraudulently’.  There is no record on the file to 
explain why some of t hese refunds were recorded as being a ‘refund’ or a 
‘gesture of goodwill’ and no record to explain why PAS considered that a 
refund in respect of an insurance policy that had seemingly been set up 
‘fraudulently’ should be recorded as a ‘gesture of goodwill’.  
ii. The complaints data provided by PAS showed that 24 of the 35 customer 
complaints were recorded as being unjustified.  However, a review of the 
customer complaint files by the Authority indicated that 20 of those 24 
complaints (83%) were valid complaint s.  They were, therefore, incorrectly 
recorded as being unjustified although 5 had been refunded in full.  One of 
these complaints, for example, concerned a customer who stated that they 
did not request the insurance policy and that it had been mis -sold to them.  
Despite the customer receiving a full refund, this complaint was still 
recorded by PAS as being unjustified.  In addition, despite 24 of the 
complaints being recorded as unjustified, 12 customers were recorded as 
receiving either a full or partial refund, 8 of which were recorded as being a 
‘gesture of goodwill’. There is no record on the files to explain why 12 
customers received a refund, despite PAS considering that their complaint 
was unjustified.   Also, there is no record to explain why some of these 
refunds were recorded as being a ‘refund’ or a ‘gesture of goodwill’.  There is 
no correlation between whether a payment was recorded as a ‘refund’ or a 
‘gesture of goodwill’ and whether the complaint was considered to be 
justified or unjustified.  Furthermore, 3 out of the 24 customer complaints 
recorded as being unjustified, were incorrectly recorded as not having 
received a refund at all, despite the customers having received a refund. 
21. The failure by PAS to accurately and consistently record (i) whether a complaint 
was justified or unjustified and/or (ii) the outcome of a complaint, led to PAS 
collating inaccurate management information in this regard. 
Failure to investigate complaints fully and resolve them appropriately and 
consistently 
22. The Complaint Management Guide in place during the Relevant Period provided 
that PAS would ensure that: 
 9  
i. complaints were investigated by a competent person who was not involved 
in the matter which was the subject of the complaint; 
ii. the person responding to the compl aints had authority to settle complaints, 
including offering redress, or have access to someone who had such 
authority; and 
iii. responses to complaints adequately covered the subject matter and redress 
was offered as appropriate. 
23. As referred to above, during t he Sample Review Period PAS recorded that it 
received a total of 7,024 customer complaints.  Out of those recorded complaints 
4,797 customers (68%) alleged that they were mis -sold their insurance policy.  
This amounted to a round 0.6% of customers during the Sample Review Period. A 
significant number of complaints were however unrecorded.  These unrecorded 
complaints were those which were resolved by close of business the same  day or 
complaints made in the AR’s store.    
24. A review of the 35 customer complaint  files regarding allegations of mis -selling 
revealed that PAS’s investigation of such complaints involved checking its internal 
records to determine whether the customer had signed a direct debit instruction 
to the customer’s bank to pay the premiums for the insurance policy, which is 
referred to as the Direct Debit Mandate.  If a signed Direct Debit Mandate was 
located by the complaint handler in the customer’s file, PAS considered this to 
mean that the customer had agreed to purchase the insurance policy and 
generally rejected the complaint without further investigation.  It is unclear why 
PAS considered that a signed Direct Debit Mandate alone would prove that a 
customer had not been mis-sold.  Although this procedure was not documented in 
the Complaint M anagement Guide, PAS has confirmed that this is what took 
place.  Further, there was no consistency regarding whether or not the Direct 
Debit Mandate was relied upon to prove that the customer had agreed to 
purchase the insurance policy and subsequently re ject the claim.  In addition, 
there is no record on the files to explain why some complaint handlers sought to 
rely on the existence of a Direct Debit Mandate and some did not. 
25. Overall, the files did not demonstrate how the outcome of the complaint had bee n 
reached and there was little evidence in the files to show that a full review of the 
sale had taken place (although t his may have been as a result of PAS’s policy of 
finding in favour of the customer in the absence of firm evidence to the contrary).  
Furthermore, the outcomes of the complaints reviewed were inconsistent when 
 10  
considering the nature of the complaints and depended on (i) the complaint 
handler that dealt with the complaint and/or (ii) how much the customer 
protested. For example, the Authority found the following. 
i. In 7 of the 35 complaint files reviewed, the complaint handler relied upon 
the existence of the signed Direct Debit Mandate from the customer without 
further investigation into the merit or otherwise of the complaint.  No refund 
was provided and the complaint was rejected. 
ii. In 1 of the 35 complaint files reviewed, the complaint handler relied upon 
the existence of the signed Direct Debit Mandate in order to reject a claim, 
but a full refund was eventually paid to the customer as a ‘ges ture of 
goodwill’.  The customer had already sought indemnity from the bank at the 
point that the complaint handler requested a copy of the Direct Debit 
Mandate, and when the signed copy was returned, the complaint handler 
informed the customer that they w ould not be provided with a refund, nor 
would they be able to claim indemnity from the bank.  The customer insisted 
that they did not agree to the insurance policy and claimed they had been 
duped into signing the policy at the point of sale.   When PAS rec eived the 
indemnity claim from the bank for the full refund, the complaint handler 
agreed with the customer that as a ‘gesture of goodwill’ PAS would not 
counter claim.  There is no record on the customer’s file to explain why in 
this case, PAS decided to offer a full refund as a ‘gesture of goodwill’ despite 
the existence of a signed Direct Debit Mandate. 
iii. In 8 of the 35 complaint files reviewed, the complaint handler did not rely on 
the existence of the Direct Debit Mandate at all, yet provided the custome rs 
with either a full or partial refund.  There is no record on these files to 
explain why some customers were provided with a full or partial refund. 
Where customers received a partial refund, there is no record to explain how 
this amount was calculated.  In one of these complaints, the customer was 
initially told to claim the premiums paid for the insurance policy from the 
bank.  After the customer protested, the complaint handler offered to refund 
half of the premiums paid.  Following further protest by the customer, the 
complaint handler eventually offered a full refund as a ‘gesture of goodwill’. 
iv. In 5 of the 35 complaint files reviewed, the complaint handler could not 
provide the customer with a copy of the Direct Debit Mandate because it 
could not be f ound, and offered the customer either a full or partial refund.  
There is no record on these files to explain why some customers were 
 11  
provided with a full refund and some with a partial refund.  Where 
customers received a partial refund, there is no record  to explain how this 
amount was calculated. 
v. In 2 of the 35 complaint files reviewed, the complaint handler stated that 
they could not provide the customer with a copy of the Direct Debit Mandate 
because it was a paperless contract and the Direct Debit Mand ate did not 
exist. Both customers were offered only a partial refund. There is no record 
on these files to explain how this amount was calculated. 
vi. In 1 of the 35 complaint files reviewed, the customer was offered a partial 
refund by the complaint handler a s a ‘gesture of goodwill’. The complaint 
handler did not recall the Direct Debit Mandate from PAS’s records, stating 
that if the Direct Debit Mandate was recalled and it was signed, the 
customer would not receive a refund. 
vii. In 1 of the 35 complaint files re viewed, the customer was not provided with 
a copy of the Direct Debit Mandate, despite repeated requests.  The 
complaint handler stated that PAS was unable to send old contracts out as 
they did not hold hard copies and refunded the customer some of the 
premiums paid.  There is no record on the file to explain why the customer 
only received part of the premiums paid and/or how this amount was 
decided. 
viii. In 1 of the 35 customer files reviewed, although the customer did not recall 
taking out the insurance policy , the complaint handler did not request a 
copy of the Direct Debit Mandate and did not carry out any further enquiries.  
The customer accepted the cancellation of the policy, but did not press for 
compensation and was not offered any redress by the complaint handler. 
26. PAS did not always investigate adequately customers’ complaints relating to 
allegations of mis -selling, nor did it investigate adequately instances where it 
found that customers may in fact have been mis -sold.  Examples of where PAS 
found that customers may have been mis -sold policies include the instances 
referred to above in paragraph 25(iii) to (viii) where the complaint handler did not 
recall or was unable to locate and/or produce a signed Direct Debit Mandate to 
evidence that the customer h ad agreed to purchase the insurance policy, yet 
provided either a full or partial refund.  
 
 12  
Failure to record complaints made to the AR 
27. The Complaint Management Guide provided that the AR was not allowed to 
handle customer complaints which related to the i nsurance policy and that 
processes were in place to ensure that any such complaints were referred to the 
Customer Relations Department at PAS.  However, a report by a professional 
services firm dated 28 March 2012 about PAS’s sales and complaint handling 
framework states that some insurance related complaints made to the AR were 
also dealt with by the AR, outside the prescribed complaints process.  As the AR 
was not able to record complaints on a central system, it was not possible for PAS 
to validate the r eason for any complaints received and resolved outside of the 
Customer Relations Department.  This was a further reason why management 
information that was collated in relation to the number of complaints received by 
PAS was inaccurate, as it did not inclu de any of the complaints made directly to 
the AR.   Furthermore, it was not possible for PAS to ensure that such complaints 
were investigated fully and that any outcomes were appropriate, adequate, 
consistent, and in accordance with the Complaint Management Guide.   
Failure to undertake a root cause analysis 
28. During the Sample Review Period 68% of the total complaints recorded by PAS 
(total recorded complaints being 7,024) were classified by PAS as being 
allegations of mis -selling.  This amounted to around 0.6% of customers during 
the Sample Review Period.  In a high proportion of these cases the customer 
claimed they: 
i. declined to take out the insurance policy in store;  
ii. were unaware that the insurance policy was in place; 
iii. did not receive any documentation in  connection with the insurance policy; 
or 
iv. did not sign any paperwork in relation to the policy. 
29. Furthermore, the complaints were spread across a number of the AR stores. 
30. DISP 1.3.3R requires firms to take reasonable steps to ensure that when handling 
complaints, they identify and remedy any recurring or systemic problems.  The 
Complaint Management Guide in place at PAS during the Relevant Period reflected 
this and stated that: 
 13  
‘In order to establish the root cause of complaints received within the Firm, the  
system will allow the Customer Relations Department to identify the main issue of 
the complaint through MI reports and discussions can then take place to establish 
systematic/process/procedural/training issues.’ 
31. Despite the fact that management information collated at PAS identified that 68% 
of its recorded complaints related to allegations of mis -selling (as set out in 
paragraph 28 above), senior management did not consider this to be a potential 
systemic issue in light of the number of policies sold.  PA S did not conduct a full 
root cause analysis in line with its Complaint Management Guide in order to 
identify whether the causes for complaints constituted a systemic issue. 
Failure to put in place adequate management controls to handle 
complaints 
32. The Comp laints Management Guide in place during the Relevant Period stated 
that PAS had implemented and developed appropriate management controls to 
ensure that it handled complaints fairly, consistently and promptly and identified 
and remedied any recurring or systemic problems.   
33. However, PAS did not have in place adequate management controls to ensure 
that it: 
i. recorded all customer expressions of dissatisfaction as complaints;  
ii. recorded all complaints accurately and consistently; 
iii. investigated all complaints fully and resolved them appropriately or 
consistently; and  
iv. recorded any complaints made to its AR.   
34. Consequently PAS did not deal with all complaints fairly and consistently.  Also, 
any management information collated in relation to the number of complaints was 
incomplete to the extent that any complaints were not recorded. 
35. PAS further failed to have in place adequate management controls in that it did 
not conduct a root cause analysis to identify and remedy any systemic or 
recurring problems.   
 
 
 14  
FAILINGS 
36. The regulatory provisions relevant to this Final Notice are referred to in Annex A. 
Principle 3   
37. On the basis of the facts and matters described in paragraphs 32 to 35 above, the 
Authority considers that during the Relevant Period, PAS breached Principle 3 of 
the Principles in that it failed to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems, by 
failing to put in place: 
i. adequate complaint handling procedures to ensure complaints were  handled 
in accordance with DISP rules; and 
ii. appropriate management controls and take reasonable steps to ensure that 
in handling complaints it fully identified and remedied any recurring or 
systemic problems in accordance with DISP 1.3.3R.  This resulted i n the risk 
of PAS failing to identify any systemic problems in relation to the complaints 
received. 
Principle 6 
38. On the basis of the facts and matters described in paragraphs 10 to 31 above, the 
Authority considers that during the Relevant Period, PAS breac hed Principle 6 of 
the Principles in that it failed to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly with regard to complaints handling, by failing to: 
i. categorise and record all customer expressions of dissatisfaction about 
insurance policies sold by the AR as complaints with the risk that such 
complaints may not have been subsequently resolved in accordance with 
DISP 1.4.1R; 
ii. accurately and consistently record the details and outcomes of customer 
complaints;  
iii. investigate fully some customers’ complaints in accordance with DISP 1.4.1R 
where allegations of mis-selling were made about the sale of its products by 
the AR, as, for example, PAS sometimes rejected mis -selling complaints 
solely on the basis that the customer had signed a Dire ct Debit Mandate for 
the payment of insurance premiums; 
 15  
iv. resolve some customer complaints by taking appropriate remedial action 
and/or offering redress in accordance with DISP 1.4.1R, as in some cases 
PAS offered customers a gesture of goodwill, the amount of which was left to 
the discretion of the complaint handler; and 
v. undertake a root cause analysis of customers’ complaints in accordance with 
DISP 1.3.3R. 
SANCTION  
39. The Authority has imposed a financial penalty of £4,049,637 (reduced to 
£2,834,700 after a 30% discount for early settlement) on PAS because of the 
failings outlined above. 
40. The misconduct took place to a significant extent both before and after 6 March 
2010.  As set out at paragraph 2.7 of the Authority’s Policy Statement 10/4, when 
calculating a financial penalty where the conduct straddles penalty regimes, the 
Authority will have regard both to the penalty regime which was effective before 6 
March 2010 (“the Old Penalty Regime”) and the penalty regime which was 
effective from 6 March 2010 (“the New Penalty Regime”). 
41. The Authority has adopted the following approach: 
i. calculated the financial penalty for PAS’s misconduct from 19 June 2009 to 5 
March 2010 by applying the Old Penalty Regime to the misconduct; 
ii. calculated the financial penalty for PAS’s misconduct from 6 March 2010 to 
27 September 2011 by applying the New Penalty Regime to the misconduct; 
and 
iii. added the penalties calculated under sub -paragraphs i and ii to produce the 
total penalty. 
Financial penalty under the Old Penalty Regime 
42. The Authority’s policy on the imposition of financial penalties relevant to the 
misconduct prior to 6 March 2010 is set out in Chapter 6 of the version of DEPP 
that was in force prior to 6 March 2010.  All references to DEPP in this section are 
references to that version of DEPP.  In determining the appropriate level of 
financial penalty the Authority has also had regard to Chapter 7 of the 
Enforcement Guide. 
 16  
43. The period of PAS’s breach for the purposes of calculating the financial penalty 
under the Old Penalty Regime is the period from 19 June 2009 to 5 March 2010. 
44. The Authority will consider the full circumstances of each case to determine 
whether a financial penalty is appropriate.  DEPP 6.5.2G sets out a non -
exhaustive list of factors that may be relevant in dete rmining the level of a 
financial penalty.   
45. The Authority considers that the following factors are particularly relevant to this 
case. 
Deterrence (DEPP 6.5.2G(1)) 
46. The financial penalty will deter PAS from further breaches of regulatory rules and 
Principles. In addition it will promote high standards of regulatory conduct by 
deterring other firms from committing similar breaches and demonstrating 
generally the benefit of compliant behaviour. 
The nature, seriousness and impact of the breach (DEPP 6.5.2G(2)) 
47. In determining the appropriate level of financial penalty, the Authority has had 
regard to the seriousness of the breaches by PAS, including the nature of the 
requirements breached, the number and duration of the breaches, the number of 
customers who have b een exposed to the risk of financial loss and the fact that 
the breaches revealed failings in PAS’s systems and controls. 
48. The Authority considers PAS’s failings to be serious because they: 
i. persisted over a significant period of time (with approximately eig ht and a 
half months falling within the Old Penalty Regime) and there was a risk of 
small financial loss to any of its customers who may have complained and so 
on aggregate a larger risk of loss overall; 
ii. placed any of PAS’s customers who might have made co mplaints at risk of 
being treated unfairly; and 
iii. revealed systemic weaknesses in PAS’s procedures, management systems 
and internal controls relating to part of the firm’s business. 
 
 
 17  
The size, financial resources and other circumstances of the firm (DEPP 
6.5.2G(5)) 
49. In determining the appropriate level of the financial penalty the Authority has 
considered PAS’s size and financial resources.  There is no evidence to suggest 
that PAS is unable to pay the financial penalty. 
Conduct following the breach (DEPP 6.5.2G(8)) 
50. The Authority recognises the following factors which mitigate the seriousness of 
the failings identified in this case. 
i. PAS has been open and co -operative with the Authority’s investigation and 
has worked with the Authority to ensure early resolution of the matter. 
ii. When the breach was brought to PAS’s attention, PAS’s senior management 
took a wide range of steps to stop the breaches. 
iii. Remedial steps have been taken since PAS was notified of the breaches to 
identify whether customers suffered loss and compensate them where they 
have.  
iv. PAS engaged a professional services firm to pe rform a review of its 
complaint handling framework. 
Disciplinary record and compliance history (DEPP 6.5.2G(9)) 
51. PAS has not been the subject of previous disciplinary action by the Authority. 
Other action taken by the Authority (DEPP 6.5.2G(10)) 
52. In determining the level of financial penalty, the Authority has taken into account 
penalties imposed by the Authority on other authorised persons for similar 
behaviour. 
Conclusion 
53. The Authority considers that a financial penalty is an appropriate sanction in this 
case, given the seriousness of the breach, the risks created for customers of PAS 
and the need to send out a strong message of deterrence to others.  Applying 
those factors here, the appropriate level of financial penalty to be imposed under 
the Old Penalty Regime is £700,000 (reduced to £490,000 for early settlement at 
Stage 1). 
 18  
Financial penalty under the New Penalty Regime   
54. The Authority’s policy on the imposition of financial  penalties relevant to the 
misconduct from 6 March 2010 is set out in Chapter 6 of the version of DEPP that 
was in force from 6 March 2010.  All references to DEPP in this section are 
references to that version of DEPP.  Under the New Penalty Regime, the A uthority 
applies a five -step framework to determine the appropriate level of financial 
penalty.  DEPP 6.5A sets out the details of the five -step framework that applies in 
respect of financial penalties imposed on firms.   
Step 1: disgorgement 
55. Pursuant to DEPP 6.5A.1G, at Step 1 the Authority seeks to deprive a firm of the 
financial benefit derived directly from the breach where it is practicable to 
quantify this. 
56. The Authority has not identified any financial benefit that PAS derived directly 
from its breach. 
57. Step 1 is therefore £0. 
Step 2: the seriousness of the breach 
58. Pursuant to DEPP 6.5A.2G, at Step 2 the Authority determines a figure that 
reflects the seriousness of the breach.  Where the amount of revenue generated 
by a firm from a particular product l ine or business area is indicative of the harm 
or potential harm that its breach may cause, that figure will be based on a 
percentage of the firm’s revenue from the relevant products or business area. 
59. The Authority considers that the revenue generated by P AS is indicative of the 
harm or potential harm caused by its breach.  The Authority has therefore 
determined a figure based on a percentage of PAS’s relevant revenue.  PAS’s 
relevant revenue is the revenue derived from the sale of mobile phone insurance 
by PAS during the period of the breach.  The period of PAS’s breach for the 
purposes of calculating the financial penalty under the New Penalty Regime is the 
period from 6 March 2010 to 27 September 2011.  The Authority considers PAS’s 
relevant revenue for this period to be £33,496,372. 
60. In deciding on the percentage of the relevant revenue that forms the basis of the 
step 2 figure, the Authority considers the seriousness of the breach and chooses a 
percentage between 0% and 20%.  This range is divided into fi ve fixed levels 
which represent, on a sliding scale, the seriousness of the breach; the more 
 19  
serious the breach, the higher the level.  For penalties imposed on firms there are 
the following five levels: 
Level 1 – 0% 
Level 2 – 5% 
Level 3 – 10% 
Level 4 – 15% 
Level 5 – 20% 
61. In assessing the seriousness level, the Authority takes into account various 
factors which reflect the impact and nature of the breach, and whether it was 
committed deliberately or recklessly.  The Authority considers the following 
factors to be relevant. 
Impact of the breach 
i. PAS’s failings placed all of its customers who  complained and who  might 
have complained at risk of being treated unfairly, and presented a risk to the 
Authority’s objective of securing protection for customers. 
ii. There was a risk of small losses to customers who complained and so on 
aggregate a larger risk of loss overall. 
iii. The breach did not affect particularly vulnerable people. 
iv. The breach had no adverse effect on markets. 
Nature of the breach 
v. The breach occurred for approximately 18 and a half months that fell within 
the New Penalty Regime. 
vi. The breach revealed systemic weaknesses in PAS’s procedures, management 
systems and internal controls relating to part of the firm’s business.  PAS 
failed to ensure complaint handlers investigated all complaints properly by 
taking into account all relevant information or that all complaints were 
assessed competently and fairly, and PAS’s procedure for handling 
complaints produced inconsistent outcomes for customers with similar or 
identical complaints. 
 20  
vii. PAS took some steps to comply with Authority rules in providing training to 
complaints handlers and establishing complaints handling procedures.  
However, some aspects of the training and complaints handling procedures 
were inadequate and PAS did not make effective use of management 
information and root cause analysis to improve customer outcomes. 
Whether the breach was deliberate and or reckless 
viii. The Authority has not found that the breach was intentional or reckless on 
the part of PAS’s senior management  
ix. There was no attempt by PAS’s senior management to conceal the 
misconduct.  
62. Taking all of these factors into account, the Authority considers the seriousness of 
the breach to be level 3 and so the Step 2 figure is 10% of £33,496,372. 
63. Step 2 is therefore £3,349,637. 
Step 3: mitigating and aggravating factors 
64. Pursuant to DEPP 6.5A.3G, at Step 3 the Authority may increase or decrease the 
amount of the financial penalty arrived at after Step 2, but not including any 
amount to be disgorged as se t out in Step 1, to take into account factors which 
aggravate or mitigate the breach. 
65. The Authority considers that the following factors aggravate the breach. 
i. PAS failed to identify the breach.  
ii. The Authority’s guidance and other published materials had al ready raised 
relevant concerns on the matter of treating customers fairly.  This material 
is widely available and has been brought to the attention of all firms in this 
sector. 
66. The Authority considers that the following factors mitigate the breach. 
i. PAS showed a significant degree of co- operation during the investigation of 
the breach by the Authority.  Further to a requirement by the Authority, PAS 
contacted a sample of customers as part of a customer contact exercise in 
relation to its sales practices.  Fo llowing this, PAS voluntarily extended the 
exercise and planned to contact all of its current customers in order to 
 21  
identify whether any customers suffered a loss by reason of its sales 
practices and compensate them where they have. 
ii. When the breach was brought to PAS’s attention, PAS’s senior management 
quickly took a wide range of steps to stop the breach including completing a 
review of the customer complaints about mis -selling received during the 
Relevant Period.   
67. As such, the Authority considers that t he aggravating and mitigating factors are 
effectively balanced and that no adjustment at Step 3 should be made. 
68. Step 3 is therefore £3,349,637. 
Step 4: adjustment for deterrence 
69. Pursuant to DEPP 6.5A.4G, if the Authority considers the figure arrived at aft er 
Step 3 is insufficient to deter the firm who committed the breach, or others, from 
committing further or similar breaches, then the Authority may increase the 
penalty. 
70. The Authority considers that the Step 3 figure of £3,349,637 represents a 
sufficient deterrent to PAS and others, and so has not increased the penalty at 
Step 4. 
71. Step 4 is therefore £3,349,637. 
Step 5: settlement discount 
72. Pursuant to DEPP 6.5A.5G, if the Authority and the firm on whom a penalty is to 
be imposed agree the amount of the fina ncial penalty and other terms, DEPP 6.7 
provides that the amount of the financial penalty which might otherwise have 
been payable will be reduced to reflect the stage at which the Authority and the 
firm reached agreement.  The settlement discount does not apply to the 
disgorgement of any benefit calculated at Step 1. 
73. The Authority and PAS reached agreement at Stage 1 and so a 30% discount 
applies to the Step 4 figure. 
74. Step 5 is therefore £2,344,746, which has been rounded down to £2,344,700. 
 
 
 22  
Conclusion on proposed financial penalty 
75. The Authority considers that combining the two separate penalties calculated 
under the Old Penalty Regime and New Penalty Regime produces a figure which is 
proportionate with similar fines.  The Authority therefore proposes to i mpose a 
total financial penalty of £2,834,700 on PAS for breaching Principles 3 and 6. 
PROCEDURAL MATTERS   
Decision maker 
76. The decision which gave rise to the obligation to give this Notice was made by the 
Settlement Decision Makers. 
77. This Final Notice is given under, and in accordance with, section 390 of the Act. 
Manner and time for Payment  
78. The financial penalty must be paid in full by PAS to the Authority by no later than 
15 July 2013, 14 days from the date of the Final Notice. 
If the financial penalty is not paid 
79. If all or any of the financial penalty is outstanding on 16 July 2013, the Authority 
may recover the outstanding amount as a debt owed by PAS and due to the 
Authority.  
Publicity 
80. Sections 391(4), 391(6) and 391( 7) of the Act apply to the publica tion of 
information about the matter to which this notice relates.  Under those provisions, 
the Authority must publish such information about the matter to which this Notice 
relates as the Authority considers appropriate.  The information may be published 
in such manner as the Authority considers appropriate.  However, the Authority 
may not publish information if such publication would, in the opinion of the 
Authority, be unfair to PAS  or prejudicial to the interests of consumers or 
detrimental to the stability of the UK financial system.  
81. The Authority intends to publish such information about the matter to which this 
Final Notice relates as it considers appropriate 
 
 23  
Authority contacts 
82. For more information concerning this matter generally, contact Kate Tuck ley 
(direct line: 020 7066 7086 / email: kate.tuckley@fca.org.uk) of the Enforcement 
and Financial Crime Division of the Authority. 
  
 
Bill Sillett 
Financial Conduct Authority, Enforcement and Financial Crime Division 
 24  
Annex A 
RELEVANT STATUTORY AND REGULATORY PROVISIONS 
STATUTORY PROVISIONS 
1. The Authority's statutory objectives, set out in section 2(2) of the Act include 
market confidence and the protection of consumers. 
2. Section 138 of the Act provides that the Authority may make such rules applying 
to autho rised persons with respect to the carrying on by them of regulated 
activities as appear to it to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of 
protecting consumers. 
3. Section 206 of the Act provides: 
If the Authority considers that an authorised person has co ntravened a 
requirement imposed on him by or under this Act … it may impose on him a 
penalty, in respect of the contravention, of such amount as it considers 
appropriate. 
REGULATORY PROVISIONS 
Principles for Businesses 
4. Under the Authority’s rule -making pow ers the Authority has published in the 
Authority’s Handbook the Principles, which apply in whole, or in part, to all 
authorised firms. 
5. The Principles are a general statement of the fundamental obligations of 
authorised firms under the regulatory system and  reflect the Authority’s 
regulatory objectives.  An authorised firm may be liable to disciplinary sanction 
where it is in breach of the Principles.  The Principles relevant to this matter are 
the following. 
Principle 3 
6. Principle 3 provides that: 
A firm mus t take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly 
and effectively, with adequate risk management systems. 
 
 25  
Principle 6 
7. Principle 6 provides that: 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
Dispute Resolution: Complaints Sourcebook 
8. DISP contains rules and guidance on how firms should deal with complaints. 
9. During the Relevant Period, DISP 1.3.3R provided the following. 
In respect of complaints that do not relate to MiFID business , a respondent must 
put in place appropriate management controls and take reasonable steps to 
ensure that in handling complaints it identifies and remedies any recurring or 
systemic problems, for example, by: 
(1) analysing the causes of individual complaints  so as to identify ro ot causes 
common to types of complaint; 
(2) considering whether such root causes may also affect other processes or 
products, including those not directly complained of; and 
(3) correcting, where reasonable to do so, such root cause. 
10. During the Relevant Period, DISP 1.4.1R provided the following. 
Once a complaint has been received by a respondent, it must: 
(1)  investigate the complaint competently, diligently and impartially; 
(2) assess fairly, consistently and promptly: 
(a)  the subject matter of the complaint; 
(b)  whether the complaint should be upheld; 
(c) what remedial action or redress (or both) may be appropriate; 
(d) if appropriate, whether it has reasonable grounds to be satisfied 
that another respondent may be solely or jointly responsible for the 
matter alleged in the complaint; 
taking into account all relevant factors; 
 26  
(3) offer redress or remedial action when it decides this is appropriate; 
(4) explain to the complainant promptly and, in a way that is fair, clear and 
not misleading, its assessment of the complaint, its decision on it, and any 
offer of remedial action or redress; and 
(5) comply promptly with any offer of remedial action or redress accepted by 
the complainant. 
11. During the Relevant Period, DISP 1.5.2G provided that complaints that are 
resolved by close of the next business day  are still subject to the complaint 
resolution rules set out in DISP 1.4. 
Decision Procedure and Penalties Manual  
12. The Authority’s policy in relation to the imposition of financial penalties is set out 
in Chapter 6 of DEPP. 
13. The Authority has revised Chapte r 6 of DEPP.  One version of Chapter 6 was in 
force up to and including 5 March 2010 and another version was in force on and 
from 6 March 2010. 
14. In this case, the misconduct occurred between 29 June 2009 and 27 September 
2011 and both versions of DEPP have been applied. 
POLICY STATEMENTS 
 Policy Statement 10/4 (March 2010) 
15. Policy Statement 10/4 relates to enforcement financial penalties. Paragraph 2.7, 
which relates to the transitional application of the new penalties regime, provides 
the following: 
“…when a breach begins before 6 March 2010 (when the new penalties regime 
takes effect) and continues after that date, two different penalty regimes will 
apply. The penalty regime in place before 6 March 2010 will apply to conduct 
before that date, and the new pen alties regime will apply to conduct from that 
date onwards.” 
 
 
 
